CIK: 108312
Company Name: WOODWARD INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-11-25
Accession Number: 0000108312-19-000017


Item 1 Business Item 1 1 Except where we have otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, amounts presented in this Form 10 K are in thousands, except per share amounts. Unless we have indicated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10 K to Woodward, the Company, we, us, and our refer to Woodward, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward looking statements for any reason, except as required by applicable law. our tax rate and other effects of the changes in U.S. federal tax law. pension and other postretirement plan assumptions and future contributions; and the stability of financial institutions, including those lending to us; future levels of indebtedness and capital spending; future repurchases of common stock; our liquidity, including our ability to meet capital spending requirements and operations; our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions with respect to business opportunities that may be available to us; restructuring and alignment costs and savings; new business opportunities; the research, development, production, and support of new products and services; the scope, nature, or impact of acquisition activity and integration of such acquisition into our business; the expected levels of activity in particular industries or markets and the effects of changes in those levels; the effect of economic trends or growth; investments in new campuses, business sites and related business developments; plans and expectations relating to the performance of our joint venture with General Electric Company; our expectations with regard to the return to service of the Boeing 737 MAX aircraft and the related impact on our original equipment manufacturer and initial provisioning sales; descriptions of our plans and expectations for future operations; our expected expenses in future periods and trends in such expenses over time; trends in our business and the markets in which we operate, including expectations in those markets in future periods; future sales, earnings, cash flow, uses of cash, and other measures of financial performance; plans and expectations related to our acquisition of L Orange GmbH and its affiliate, Fluid Mechanics LLC, and their related operations in Germany, the United States and China, including a long term supply agreement entered into with MTU, a subsidiary of Rolls Royce, in connection with the acquisition; the opportunity to further develop sales opportunities with new customers and achieve other synergies, including supply chain savings; and the liability recognized by the Company in connection with the various pension plans assumed as part of the acquisition; This Annual Report on Form 10 K, including Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward looking statements regarding future events and our future results within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that are deemed forward looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of management. Words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, seek, goal, expect, forecast, intend, continue, outlook, plan, project, target, strive, can, could, may, should, will, would, variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characteristics of future events or circumstances are forward looking statements. Forward looking statements may include, among others, statements relating to atements oking St Forward Lo 141 Signatures 140 Form 10 K Summary Item 16. 136 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Item 15. V 135 Principal Accountant Fees and Services Item 14. 135 Item 13 Certain Relationship and Related Transactions and Director Independence Item 13 135 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters Item 12 135 Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 11 135 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 10. II 135 Other Information Item 9B. 132 Controls and Procedures Item 9A. 132 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures Item 9. 62 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 8. 58 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 7A. 32 Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7. 31 Selected Financial Data Item 6. 29 Market Registrant Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 5. I 28 Mine Safety Disclosures Item 4. 28 Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 3 28 Item 2 Properties
