CIK: 1384195
Company Name: RING ENERGY INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-02-28
Accession Number: 0001144204-19-011298


Item 1 Business General We are a Midland based exploration and production company that is engaged in oil and natural gas acquisition, exploration, development and production activities. Our primary drilling operations target the Central Basin Platform in Andrews County and Gaines County, Texas and the Delaware Basin in Reeves County and Culberson County, Texas, all of which are part of the Permian Basin. We plan to continue to exploit our acreage position through the drilling of highly economic, vertical and horizontal wells using the most recent drilling and completion techniques, as well as to continue to evaluate potential transactions to acquire attractive acreage positions within our core areas of interest. In 2018, we increased our acreage positions to 127,422 gross (96,026 net) acres with 107,203 gross (76,028 net) acres in Andrews and Gaines counties and 20,219 gross (19,998 net) acres in Reeves and Culberson counties. As of December 31, 2018, Ring increased its proved reserves to approximately 36.6 million BOE (barrel of oil equivalent), all of which relate to its properties located in the Permian Basin in Texas. For the calculation of BOE, oil is weighted on a 6 to 1 ratio against natural gas. The Company proved reserves are oil weighted with 76% of proved reserves consisting of oil and 24% consisting of natural gas. Of those reserves, 61% of the proved reserves are classified as proved developed producing, or PDP, 6% are classified as proved developed non producing, or PDNP, and 33% are classified as proved undeveloped, or PUD. We plan to continue to focus on increasing our production through the development of existing properties, as well as the acquisitions of producing properties. Sales as a result of production for the year ended December 31, 2018, increased 55% to 2,232,658 BOE, as compared to sales of 1,438,647 BOE for the year ended December 31, 2017. The stated production amount reflects only the oil and natural gas that was produced and shipped prior to the end of the fourth quarter. Any oil and natural gas produced in the fourth quarter but still held on site after December 31, 2018, will be credited in the first quarter of 2019. Ring believes that there is significant value to be created by drilling the identified undeveloped opportunities on its Texas properties. As of December 31, 2018, Ring owned interests in a total of 19,432 gross (17,408 net) developed acres and 87,771 gross (58,620 net) undeveloped acres in Andrews and Gaines Counties, Texas. In these counties, the Company has 62 identified proven vertical drilling locations and 19 identified proven horizontal locations based on the reserve reports as of December 31, 2018, and an additional 563 potential vertical drilling locations based on 10 acre downspacing and 769 potential horizontal drilling locations based on 6 wells per section or 106 acres per well. Also as of December 31, 2018, Ring owned interests in a total of 19,323 gross (19,138 net) developed acres and 896 gross (860 net) undeveloped acres in Culberson and Reeves Counties, Texas. In these counties, the Company has 39 identified proven vertical drilling locations and identified proven horizontal locations based on the reserve reports as of December 31, 2018 and an additional 430 potential vertical drilling locations based on 20 acre downspacing. Ring intends to grow its reserves and production through development, drilling, exploitation and exploration activities on this multi year project inventory of identified potential drilling locations and through acquisitions that meet the Company strategic and financial objectives, targeting oil weighted reserves. 3 Ring Energy Business Strategy and Development Pursue strategic acquisitions with exceptional upside potential. Ring has a history of acquiring leasehold positions that it believes to have substantial resource potential and to meet its targeted returns on invested capital. Ring has historically pursued acquisitions of properties that it believes to have exploitation and development potential comparable to its existing inventory of drilling locations. The Company has developed and refined an acquisition program designed to increase reserves and complement existing core properties. Ring experienced team of management and engineering professionals identify and evaluate acquisition opportunities, negotiate and close purchases and manage acquired properties. Management intends to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions that meet the Company operational and financial targets. The executive team, with its extensive experience in the Permian Basin, has many relationships with operators and service providers in the region. Ring believes that leveraging its relationships will be a competitive advantage in identifying acquisition targets. Management proven ability to evaluate resource potential will allow Ring to successfully acquire acreage and bring out more value in the assets. Growing production and reserves by developing our oil rich resource base through conventional and horizontal drilling. Over the long term, Ring intends to drill and develop its acreage base in an effort to maximize its value and resource potential. Ring portfolio of proved oil and natural gas reserves consists of 76% oil and 24% natural gas. Of those reserves, 61% of the proved reserves are classified as proved developed producing, or PDP, 6% are classified as proved developed non producing, or PDNP, and 33% are classified as proved undeveloped, or PUD. Ring plans to increase its production, reserves and cash flow while gaining favorable returns on invested capital through the conversion of undeveloped reserves to developed reserves. Through December 31, 2018, we increased our proved reserves to approximately 36.6 million BOE (barrel of oil equivalent). As of December 31, 2018, our estimated proved reserves had a pre tax PV10 (present value of future net revenues before income taxes discounted at 10%) of approximately $5416 million and a Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows of approximately $455.9 million. The difference between these 2 amounts is the effect of income taxes. The Company presents the pre tax PV10 value, which is a non GAAP financial measure, because it is a widely used industry standard which we believe is useful to those who may review this Annual Report when comparing our asset base and performance to other comparable oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. Employ industry leading drilling and completion techniques. Ring executive team intends to utilize new and innovative technological advancements and careful geological evaluation in reservoir engineering to generate value for its stockholders and to build development opportunities for years to come. Improved efficiency through employing technological advancements can provide a significant benefit in a continuous drilling program such as the 1 Ring contemplates for its current inventory of drilling locations. Ring Energy Strengths High quality asset base in 1 of North America leading resource plays. Ring acreage is located in the Permian Basin in Andrews and Gaines Counties, which is in the heart of the Central Basin Platform, and in Culberson and Reeves Counties, which is in the Delaware Basin. The Permian Basin is 1 of North America leading resource plays and has a significant production history. As of December 31, 2018, Ring has drilled 296 wells, with 193 being vertical wells and 103 being horizontal wells in its Central Basin acreage and 14 wells, with 10 being vertical wells and 4 being horizontal wells on its Delaware Basin acreage. As of December 31, 2018, estimated net proved reserves were comprised of approximately 76% oil and 24% natural gas. De risked Permian acreage position with multi year drilling inventory. As of December 31, 2018, Ring has drilled 310 gross operated wells across its leasehold position with a 99.7% success rate. Ring has identified a multi year inventory of potential drilling locations that will drive reserves and production growth and provide attractive return opportunities. As of December 31, 2018, Ring has 62 identified proven vertical drilling locations and 19 identified proven horizontal locations in Andrews and Gaines Counties and 39 identified proven vertical drilling locations and 2 identified proven horizontal locations in Culberson and Reeves Counties in its proved undeveloped reserves. It believes it has an additional 563 potential vertical locations based on 10 acre downspacing and an additional 769 potential horizontal drilling locations based on 6 wells per section or 106 acres per well in Andrews and Gaines Counties and 430 potential vertical locations based on 20 acre downspacing in Culberson and Reeves Counties. The Company views this drilling inventory as de risked because of the significant production history in the area and well established industry activity surrounding the acreage. Experienced and proven management team focused on the Permian Basin. The executive team has an average of approximately 25 years of industry experience per person, most of which has been focused in the Permian Basin. The Company believes its management and technical team is 1 of the Company principal competitive strengths due to the team proven ability to identify and integrate acquisitions, focus on cost efficiencies while managing a large scale development program and disciplined allocation of capital to high returning projects. Ring Chief Executive Officer, Kelly Hoffman, has had a successful career in the Permian Basin since 1975 when he started with Amoco Production Company and found further success in West Texas when he co founded AOCO. In addition, Chairman of the Board, Lloyd T. Rochford, and Director, Stanley M. McCabe, formed Arena Resources, Inc. ( Arena ) in 2001, which operated in the same proximate area as Ring Andrews and Gaines County acreage. Arena eventually sold to SandRidge Energy, Inc., in July 2010 for $16 billion. Ring management team aims to execute a similar growth strategy and development plan by leveraging its industry relationships and significant operational experience in these regions. 4 Concentrated acreage position with high degree of operational control. Ring has a highly contiguous acreage position and operates essentially 100% of its acreage. The operating control allows Ring to implement and benefit from its strategy of enhancing returns through operational and cost efficiencies. Additionally, as the operator of substantially all of its acreage, Ring retains the ability to adjust its capital expenditures based on well performance and commodity price forecasts. Competitive Business Conditions We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Some of our competitors possess and employ financial resources substantially greater than ours and some of our competitors employ more technical personnel. These factors can be particularly important in the areas in which we operate. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects, and to evaluate, bid for, and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than what our financial or technical resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to identify, evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Marketing and Pricing The actual price range of crude oil is largely established by major crude oil purchasers and commodities trading. Pricing for natural gas is based on regional supply and demand conditions. To this extent, we believe we receive oil and natural gas prices comparable to other producers. We believe there is little risk in our ability to sell all our current production at current prices with a reasonable profit margin. The risk of domestic overproduction at current prices is not deemed significant. We view our primary pricing risk to be related to a potential decline in prices to a level which could render our current production uneconomical. We are presently committed to use the services of the existing gathering systems of the companies that purchase our natural gas production. This commitment is tied to existing natural gas purchase contracts associated with our production, which potentially gives such gathering companies certain short term relative monopolistic powers to set gathering and transportation costs, because obtaining the services of an alternative gathering company would require substantial additional costs (since an alternative gathering company would be required to lay new pipeline and or obtain new rights of way to any lease from which we are selling production). With respect to our oil production, we are not subject to third party gathering systems. Some of our oil production is sold through a third party pipeline which has no regional competition and all other oil production is transported by the oil purchaser by trucks with competitive trucking costs in the area. Major Customers We principally sell our oil and natural gas production to end users, marketers and other purchasers that have access to nearby pipeline facilities. In areas where there is no practical access to pipelines, oil is trucked to storage facilities. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, sales to 2 customers, Occidental Energy Marketing ( Oxy ) and Plains Marketing, L.P. ( Plains ) represented 85% and 11%, respectively, of our oil and natural gas revenues. At December 31, 2018, Oxy represented 90% of our accounts receivable and Plains represented 5%. We believe that the loss of any of these customers would not materially impact our business because we could readily find other purchasers for our oil and natural gas. Delivery Commitments As of December 31, 2018, we were not committed to providing a fixed quantity of oil or gas under any existing contracts. Governmental Regulations Oil and natural gas operations such as ours are subject to various types of legislation, regulation and other legal requirements enacted by governmental authorities. This legislation and regulation affecting the oil and natural gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion. Some of these requirements carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases our cost of doing business and, consequently, can affect our profitability. 5 Regulation of Drilling and Production The production of oil and natural gas is subject to regulation under a wide range of local, state and federal statutes, rules, orders and regulations. Federal, state and local statutes and regulations require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations. Currently, all of our properties and operations are in Texas and Texas has regulations governing conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, the establishment of maximum allowable rates of production from oil and natural gas wells, the regulation of well spacing, and plugging and abandonment of wells. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce from our wells and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill, although we can apply for exceptions to such regulations or to have reductions in well spacing. Moreover, Texas imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids within its jurisdiction. The failure to comply with these rules and regulations can result in substantial penalties. Our competitors in the oil and natural gas industry are subject to the same regulatory requirements and restrictions that affect our operations. Regulation of Transportation of Oil Sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at negotiated prices, however, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. Our sales of crude oil are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The transportation of oil in common carrier pipelines is also subject to rate regulation. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or the FERC, regulates interstate oil pipeline transportation rates under the Interstate Commerce Act. Intrastate oil pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. The basis for intrastate oil pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate oil pipeline rates, varies from state to state. Insofar as effective interstate and intrastate rates are equally applicable to all comparable shippers, we believe that the regulation of oil transportation rates will not affect our operations in any way that is of material difference from those of our competitors. Further, interstate and intrastate common carrier oil pipelines must provide service on a non discriminatory basis. Under this open access standard, common carriers must offer service to all shippers requesting service on the same terms and under the same rates. When oil pipelines operate at full capacity, access is governed by pro rationing provisions set forth in the pipelines published tariffs. Accordingly, we believe that access to oil pipeline transportation services generally will be available to us to the same extent as to our competitors. Regulation of Transportation and Sale of Natural Gas Historically, the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce have been regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 and regulations issued under those Acts by the FERC. In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which natural gas could be sold. While sales by producers of natural gas can currently be made at uncontrolled market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. Since 1985, the FERC has endeavored to make natural gas transportation more accessible to natural gas buyers and sellers on an open and non discriminatory basis. The FERC has stated that open access policies are necessary to improve the competitive structure of the interstate natural gas pipeline industry and to create a regulatory framework that will put natural gas sellers into more direct contractual relations with natural gas buyers by, among other things, unbundling the sale of natural gas from the sale of transportation and storage services. Although the FERC orders do not directly regulate natural gas producers, they are intended to foster increased competition within all phases of the natural gas industry. We cannot accurately predict whether the FERC actions will achieve the goal of increasing competition in markets in which our natural gas is sold. Therefore, we cannot provide any assurance that the less stringent regulatory approach established by the FERC will continue. However, we do not believe that any action taken will affect us in a way that materially differs from the way it affects other natural gas producers. Intrastate natural gas transportation is subject to regulation by state regulatory agencies. The basis for intrastate regulation of natural gas transportation and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate natural gas pipeline rates and services varies from state to state. Insofar as such regulation within a particular state will generally affect all intrastate natural gas shippers within the state on a comparable basis, we believe that the regulation of similarly situated intrastate natural gas transportation in any states in which we operate and ship natural gas on an intrastate basis will not affect our operations in any way that is of material difference from those of our competitors. Environmental Compliance and Risks Our oil and natural gas exploration, development and production operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Historically, most of the environmental regulation of oil and gas production has been left to state regulatory boards or agencies in those jurisdictions where there is significant gas and oil production, with limited direct regulation by such federal agencies as the Environmental Protection Agency. However, while we believe this generally to be the case for our production activities in Texas, there are various regulations issued by the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) and other governmental agencies that would govern significant spills, blow outs, or uncontrolled emissions. 6 In Texas specific oil and natural gas regulations apply to the drilling, completion and operations of wells, and the disposal of waste oil and salt water. There are also procedures incident to the plugging and abandonment of dry holes or other non operational wells, all as governed by the applicable governing state agency. At the federal level, among the more significant laws and regulations that may affect our business and the oil and natural gas industry are The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, also known as CERCLA or Superfund; the Oil Pollution Act of 1990; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, also known as RCRA, ; the Clean Air Act; Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, or the Clean Water Act; and the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974. Compliance with these regulations may constitute a significant cost and effort for us. No specific accounting for environmental compliance has been maintained or projected by us at this time. We are not presently aware of any environmental demands, claims, or adverse actions, litigation or administrative proceedings in which either we or our acquired properties are involved in or subject to, or arising out of any predecessor operations. In the event of a breach of environmental regulations, these environmental regulatory agencies have a broad range of alternative or cumulative remedies which include ordering a clean up of any spills or waste material and restoration of the soil or water to conditions existing prior to the environmental violation; fines; or enjoining further drilling, completion or production activities. In certain egregious situations the agencies may also pursue criminal remedies against us or our principal officers. Operational Hazards and Insurance The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including the risk of fire, explosions, blow outs, pipe failures and, in some cases, abnormally high pressure formations which could lead to environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks and the discharge of toxic gases. If any of these should occur, we could be required to pay amounts due to injury, loss of life, damage or destruction to property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations and could incur costs in connection therewith. In accordance with what we believe to be industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the operating risks to which our business is exposed. Current Employees As of December 31, 2018, we had forty 2 full time employees. Our employees are not represented by any labor union. We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory and have never experienced a work stoppage or strike. We also retain certain engineers, geologists, landmen, pumpers and other personnel on a contract or fee basis as necessary for our operations. Seasonal Nature of Business Generally, the demand for oil and natural gas fluctuates depending on the time of year. Seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers may sometimes lessen this fluctuation. Further, pipelines, utilities, local distribution companies, and industrial end users utilize oil and natural gas storage facilities and purchase some of their anticipated winter requirements during the summer, which can also lessen seasonal demand. Business Segments Our operations are all oil and natural gas exploration and production related activities in the United States. Principal Executive Office Our principal executive offices are located at 901 West Wall St., 3 rd Floor, Midland, TX 79702, and our teleph1 number is (432) 682 7464. 7 Available Information Our Internet website can be found at www.ringenergy.com. Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934 will be available through our Internet website free of charge as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report and should not be considered part of this Annual Report. The SEC also maintains an Internet website ( http www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A Risk Factors The following risks and uncertainties may affect our performance, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Relating to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Our Business A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. The price we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; political conditions, including embargoes, in or affecting other oil producing activity; the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; weather conditions; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Lower prices will also negatively impact the value of our proved reserves. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. A substantial percentage of our proven properties are undeveloped; therefore, the risk associated with our success is greater than would be the case if the majority of our properties were categorized as proved developed producing. Because a substantial percentage of our proven properties are proved undeveloped (approximately 33%) or proved developed non producing (approximately 6%), we will require significant additional capital to develop such properties before they may become productive. Further, because of the inherent uncertainties associated with drilling for oil and gas, some of these properties may never be developed to the extent that they result in positive cash flow. Even if we are successful in our development efforts, it could take several years for a significant portion of our undeveloped properties to be converted to positive cash flow. While our current business plan is to fund the development costs with cash flow from our other producing properties, if such cash flow is not sufficient we may be forced to seek alternative sources for cash, through the issuance of additional equity or debt securities, increased borrowings or other means. 8 Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Please read Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. . . (below) for a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; pressure or irregularities in geological formations; shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; equipment failures or accidents; adverse weather conditions; reductions in oil and natural gas prices; title problems; and limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. Part of our strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve additional risks and uncertainties in their application if compared to conventional drilling. Our operations utilize some of the latest horizontal drilling and completion techniques as developed by us, other oil and natural gas exploration and production companies and our service providers. The additional risks that we face while drilling horizontally include, but are not limited to, the following drilling wells that are significantly longer and or deeper than more conventional wells; landing our wellbore in the desired drilling z1; staying in the desired drilling z1 while drilling horizontally through the formation; running our casing the entire length of the wellbore; and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, the following the ability to fracture or stimulate the planned number of stages in a horizontal or lateral well bore; the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. If our assessments of recently purchased properties are materially inaccurate, it could have a significant impact on future operations and earnings. We have aggressively expanded our base of producing properties. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires assessments of many factors, which are inherently inexact and may be inaccurate, including the following the amount of recoverable reserves; future oil and natural gas prices; estimates of operating costs; estimates of future development costs; estimates of the costs and timing of plugging and abandonment; and potential environmental and other liabilities. Our assessment will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to assess fully their capabilities and deficiencies. As noted previously, we plan to undertake further development of our properties through the use of cash flow from existing production. Therefore, a material deviation in our assessments of these factors could result in less cash flow being available for such purposes than we presently anticipate, which could either delay future development operations (and delay the anticipated conversion of reserves into cash), or cause us to seek alternative sources to finance development activities. Decreases in oil and natural gas prices may require us to take write downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties, potentially requiring earlier than anticipated debt repayment and negatively impacting the trading value of our securities. Accounting rules require that we review periodically the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. Because our properties serve as collateral for advances under our existing credit facility, a write down in the carrying values of our properties could require us to repay any outstanding debt earlier than we would otherwise be required. A write down could also constitute a non cash charge to earnings. It is likely the cumulative effect of a write down could also negatively impact the trading price of our securities. 9 Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reported reserves. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reported reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our reported proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. If future values decline or costs increase it could negatively impact our ability to finance operations, and individual properties could cease being commercially viable, affecting our decision to continue operations on producing properties or to attempt to develop properties. All of these factors would have a negative impact on earnings and net income, and most likely the trading price of our securities. These factors could also result in the acceleration of debt repayment and a reduction in our borrowing base under our credit facility. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from prospects that are currently being drilled to prospects that will require substantial additional seismic data processing and interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. This risk may be enhanced in our situation, due to the fact that a significant percentage (45%) of our proved reserves is currently proved undeveloped reserves. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data obtained by analyzing other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; abnormally pressured formations; mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapse; fires and explosions; personal injuries and death; and natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to our Company. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance, then it could materially and adversely affect us. 10 We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration, development, production and sale of oil and natural gas are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international regulation. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations; drilling bonds; reports concerning operations; the spacing of wells; unitization and pooling of properties; and taxation. Under these laws, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations may incur substantial liabilities to comply with the environmental laws and regulations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations or the imposition of injunctive relief. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position or financial condition as well as the industry in general. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or if our operations were standard in the industry at the time they were performed. If our indebtedness increases, it could reduce our financial flexibility. We have a credit facility in place with $175 million in commitments for borrowings and letters of credit. As of December 31, 2018, $39.5 million was outstanding on our credit facility. If in the future we further utilize this facility, the level of our indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following a significant portion of our cash flow could be used to service the indebtedness; a high level of debt would increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; the covenants contained in our credit facility limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments, and; a high level of debt could impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes. In addition, our bank borrowing base is subject to quarterly redeterminations. If we use our credit facility, we could be forced to repay a portion of our bank borrowings due to redeterminations of our borrowing base. If we are forced to do so, we may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowings or arrange new financing, we may have to sell significant assets. Any such sale could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flows and income. Unless we conduct successful development, exploitation and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and, therefore, our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. If we are unable to develop, exploit, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production, our cash flow and income will decline as production declines, until our existing properties would be incapable of sustaining commercial production. 11 If our access to markets is restricted, it could negatively impact our production, our income and ultimately our ability to retain our leases. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. Currently, the majority of our production is sold to marketers and other purchasers that have access to nearby pipeline facilities. However, as we begin to further develop our properties, we may find production in areas with limited or no access to pipelines, thereby necessitating delivery by other means, such as trucking or requiring compression facilities. Such restrictions on our ability to sell our oil or natural gas could have several adverse effects, including higher transportation costs, fewer potential purchasers (thereby potentially resulting in a lower selling price) or, in the event we were unable to market and sustain production from a particular lease for an extended time, possibly causing us to lose a lease due to lack of production. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains . In order to reduce commodity price uncertainty and increase cash flow predictability relating to the marketing of our crude oil and natural gas, we may enter into crude oil and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile crude oil and natural gas prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains if crude oil and natural gas prices rise over the price established by the arrangements. As of December 31, 2018, we have no hedging arrangements in place with respect to our expected production. We rely on computer and telecommunications systems, and failures in our systems or cyber security attacks could materially disrupt our business operations. The oil and natural gas industry has become increasingly dependent upon digital technologies to conduct day to day operations including certain exploration, development and production activities. We depend on digital technology to estimate quantities of oil and natural gas reserves, process and record financial and operating data, analyze seismic and drilling information, and communicate with our employees and other third parties. Our business partners, including vendors, service providers, purchasers of our production and financial institutions, are also dependent on digital technology. It is possible that we could incur interruptions from cyber security attacks, computer viruses or malware. We believe that we have positive relations with our vendors and maintain satisfactory anti virus and malware software and controls. Even so, any cyber incidents or interruptions to our computing and communications infrastructure or our information systems could lead to data corruption, communication interruption, unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse or destruction of proprietary or other information, or otherwise significantly disrupt our business operations. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Competition is intense in the oil and natural gas industry. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties and marketing oil and natural gas. Our competitors include multinational oil and natural gas companies, major oil and natural gas companies, independent oil and natural gas companies, individual producers, financial buyers as well as participants in other industries that supply energy and fuel to consumers. Many of our competitors have greater and more diverse resources than we do. Additionally, stiff competition for acquisitions may significantly increase the cost of available properties. We compete for the personnel and equipment required to explore, develop and operate properties. Our competitors also may have established long term strategic positions and relationships in areas in which we may seek to enter. Consequently, our competitors may be able to address these competitive factors more effectively than we can. If we are not successful in our competition for oil and natural gas reserves or in our marketing of production, then our financial condition and operation results may be adversely affected. 12 If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to record additional write downs of the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties in the future. We follow the full cost method of accounting for our oil and natural gas properties. Under the full cost method, the net book value of properties, less related deferred income taxes, may not exceed a calculated ceiling. The ceiling is the estimated after tax future net revenues from proved oil and natural gas properties, discounted at 10% per year. Discounted future net revenues are estimated using oil and natural gas spot prices based on the average price during the preceding 12 month period determined as an un weighted, arithmetic average of the first day of the month price for each month within such period, except for changes which are fixed and determinable by existing contracts. The net book value is compared to the ceiling on a quarterly basis. The excess, if any, of the net book value above the ceiling is required to be written off as an expense. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recorded a non cash write down of $14.2 million. We did not record a write down during 2017. Under SEC full cost accounting rules, any write off recorded may not be reversed even if higher oil and natural gas prices increase the ceiling applicable to future periods. Future price decreases could result in reductions in the carrying value of such assets and an equivalent charge to earnings. It is difficult to predict with reasonable certainty the amount of expected future impairments given the many factors impacting the ceiling test calculation including, but not limited to, future pricing, operating costs, upward or downward reserve revisions, reserve adds, and tax attributes. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock. Stockholders may not receive funds without selling their shares. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and investment opportunities. In addition, our credit facility prohibits us from paying dividends. Our board of directors can, without stockholder approval, cause preferred stock to be issued on terms that adversely affect common stockholders. Under our Articles of Incorporation, our board of directors is authorized to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which n1 are issued and outstanding as of the date of this Annual Report. Also, our board of directors, without stockholder approval, may determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares. If the board causes shares of preferred stock to be issued, the rights of the holders of our common stock could be adversely affected. The board ability to determine the terms of preferred stock and to cause its issuance, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Preferred shares issued by the board of directors could include voting rights, or even super voting rights, which could shift the ability to control the company to the holders of the preferred stock. Preferred shares could also have conversion rights into shares of common stock at a discount to the market price of the common stock which could negatively affect the market for our common stock. In addition, preferred shares would have preference in the event of liquidation of the Company, which means that the holders of preferred shares would be entitled to receive the net assets of the Company distributed in liquidation before the common stock holders receive any distribution of the liquidated assets. We have no current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock. Provisions under Nevada law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition to the ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock, the existence of some provisions under Nevada law could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Nevada law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments N1 13 Item 2 Item 2 Properties
