CIK: 1401257
Company Name: FORUM ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-02-28
Accession Number: 0001401257-19-000075


Item 1 Business Forum Energy Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Forum, the Company, we or us ), is a global oilfield products company, serving the drilling, subsea, completions, production and infrastructure sectors of the oil and natural gas industry. Our common shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) under the symbol FET. Our principal executive offices are located at 920 Memorial City Way, Suite 1000, Houston, Texas 77024, our teleph1 number is (281) 949 2500, and our website is www.f e t.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and current reports on Form 8 K, and all amendments thereto, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). These reports are also available on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. Information contained on or accessible from our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10 K and should not be considered part of this report or any other filing that we make with the SEC. Overview We are a global oilfield products company, serving the drilling, subsea, completions, production and infrastructure sectors of the oil and natural gas industry. We design, manufacture and distribute products and engage in aftermarket services, parts supply and related services that complement our product offering. Our product offering includes a mix of frequently replaced consumable products and highly engineered capital products that are used in the exploration, development, production and transportation of oil and natural gas. Our consumable products are used in drilling, well construction and completions activities, within the supporting infrastructure, and at processing centers and refineries. Our engineered capital products are directed at drilling rig equipment for new rigs, upgrades and refurbishment projects; subsea construction and development projects; the placement of production equipment on new producing wells; pressure pumping equipment; and downstream capital projects. In 2018 , approximately 80% of our revenue was derived from consumable products and activity based equipment, while the balance was primarily derived from capital products with a small amount from rental and other services. We seek to design, manufacture and supply reliable high quality products that create value for our diverse customer base, which includes, among others, oil and natural gas operators, land and offshore drilling contractors, oilfield service companies, subsea construction and service companies, and pipeline and refinery operators. We operate 3 business segments that cover all stages of the well cycle, Drilling & Subsea, Completions, and Production & Infrastructure. We incorporate by reference the segment and geographic information for the last 3 years set forth in Note 16 Business Segments and the information with respect to acquisitions set forth in Note 4 Acquisitions & Dispositions . Drilling & Subsea segment In our Drilling & Subsea segment, we design, manufacture and supply products and provide related services to the drilling and subsea markets. Through this segment, we offer drilling technologies, including capital equipment and a broad line of products consumed in the drilling process; and subsea technologies, including robotic vehicles and other capital equipment, specialty comp1nts and tooling, a broad suite of complementary subsea technical services, and products used in pipeline infrastructure. There are several factors that drive demand for our Drilling & Subsea segment. Our Drilling Technologies product line is influenced by global drilling activity; the level of capital investment in drilling rigs; rig upgrades and equipment replacement as drilling contractors modify their existing rigs to increase capability or improve efficiency and safety; and the number of rigs in use and the severity of the conditions under which they operate. Demand for our subsea products is impacted by global offshore activity, defense spending, subsea equipment and pipeline installation, repair and maintenance spending, and growth in offshore resource development. Drilling Technologies . We provide both drilling capital equipment and consumables, with a focus on products that enhance our customers handling of tubulars and drilling fluids on the drilling rig. Our product offering includes powered and manual tubular handling equipment; customized offline crane systems; drilling data acquisition management systems; pumps, pump parts, valves, and manifolds; drilling fluid end comp1nts; a broad line of Item consumed in the drilling process; and digital monitoring products. Drilling capital equipment. We design and manufacture a range of powered and manual tubular handling tools used on onshore and offshore drilling rigs. Our Forum B+V Oil Tools and Wrangler branded tools reduce direct human involvement in the handling of pipe during drilling operations, improving safety, speed and efficiency of operations. 3 Table of Contents Our tubular handling tools include elevators, clamps, slip handles, tong handles, powered slips, spiders and kelly spinners. Our hydraulic catwalks mechanize the lifting and lowering of tubulars to and from the drill floor, eliminating or reducing the need for traditional drill pipe and casing pick up and lay down operations with associated personnel. In addition, our make up and break out tools, called Floorhand TM and Wrangler Roughneck , automate a potentially dangerous rig floor task and improve rig drilling speed and safety. In addition, we design and manufacture a range of rig based offline activity cranes and multi purpose cranes. In addition to powered tubular handling equipment, we design and manufacture drilling manifold systems and high pressure piping packages. Finally, we repair and service drilling equipment for both land and offshore rigs. Many of our service employees work in the field to address problems at the rig site. Consumable products. We manufacture a range of consumable products used on drilling rigs, well servicing rigs, and hydraulic fracturing systems. Our consumable products include valves, centrifugal pumps, mud pump fluid end comp1nts, mud pump modules, rig sensors, inserts, and dies. We are also a supplier of oilfield bearings to original equipment manufacturers and repair businesses for use in drilling and well stimulation equipment. Subsea Technologies. We design and manufacture capital equipment and specialty comp1nts used in the subsea sector and provide a broad suite of complementary subsea technical services. We have a core focus on the design and manufacture of remotely operated vehicle ( ROV ) systems, other specialty subsea vehicles, and rescue submarines, as well as critical comp1nts of these vehicles. Many of our related technical services complement our vehicle offerings. Subsea vehicles. We are a leading designer and manufacturer of a wide range of ROVs that we supply to the offshore subsea construction, observation and related service markets. The market for subsea ROVs can be segmented into 3 broad classes of vehicles based on size and category of operations (1) large work class vehicles and trenchers for subsea construction and installation activities, (2) drilling class vehicles deployed from and for use around an offshore rig and (3) observation class vehicles for inspection and light manipulation. We are a leading provider of work class and observation class vehicles. We design and manufacture large work class ROVs through our Perry brand. These vehicles are principally used in deepwater construction applications with the largest vehicles providing up to 200 horsepower, exceeding 1,200 pounds of payload capacity and having the capability to work in depths up to 4,000 meters. In addition to work class ROVs, we design and manufacture large subsea trenchers that travel along the sea floor for digging, installation and burial operations. The largest of these subsea trenchers provides up to 1,500 horsepower and is able to cut over 3 meters deep into the seafloor to lay pipelines, power cables or communications cables. Our Forum Sub Atlantic branded observation class vehicles are electrically powered and are principally used for inspection, survey and light manipulation, and serve a wide range of industries. Our subsea vehicle customers are primarily large offshore construction companies, including non oil and natural gas entities, such as a range of governmental organizations including navies, maritime science and geoscience research organizations, offshore wind power companies, and other industries operating in marine environments. Subsea products and technical services. In addition to subsea vehicles, we are a leading manufacturer of subsea products and comp1nts. We design and manufacture a group of products that are used in and around the ROV. For example, we manufacture Dynacon branded ROV launch and recovery systems, Syntech branded syntactic foam buoyancy comp1nts, Sub Atlantic branded ROV thrusters, and a wide range of hydraulic power units and valve packs. We design and manufacture these ROV comp1nts for incorporation into our own vehicles as well as for sale to other ROV manufacturers. We also provide a broad suite of subsea tooling, both industry standard and custom designed. In addition to vehicle related subsea products, we provide a broad suite of subsea technical services. Subsea rental. On January 3, 2018, we contributed our Forum Subsea Rentals ( FSR ) business into Ashtead Technology, in exchange for a 40% interest in the combined business. The transaction created a market leading independent provider of subsea survey and ROV equipment rental services. Our interest in the combined business is presented in our consolidated financial statements as an equity method investment in the Drilling and Subsea segment, for post closing periods. Completions segment In our Completions segment, we design, manufacture and supply products and provide related services to the well construction, completion, stimulation and intervention markets. Through this segment, we offer downhole technologies, 4 Table of Contents including cementing and casing tools, completion products, and a range of downhole cable protection solutions; and we also offer stimulation and intervention technologies, including pumps and well stimulation consumable products, premium industrial heat exchanger and cooling systems, and related recertification and refurbishment services. There are several factors driving demand for our Completions segment. Our Downhole Technologies product line is impacted by the level of well completion activity and complexity of well construction and completion. Our Stimulation & Intervention and Coiled Tubing product lines are impacted by the use of hydraulic fracturing to develop oil and natural gas reserves in shale or tight sand basins across North America and the level of workover and intervention activity. Downhole Technologies. We manufacture a broad line of downhole products that are consumed during the well construction, completion and production phases of a well lifecycle. Downhole protection systems . We offer a full range of downhole protection solutions and artificial lift accessories products through our various brands such as Cannon Services and Multilift. The Cannon Services clamp, Forum cast clamp and protection products are used to shield downhole control lines, cables and gauges during installation and to provide protection during production enhancement operations. We design and manufacture a full range of downhole protection solutions for electrical submersible pump ( ESP ) cabling, encapsulated control lines, sub surface safety valves and permanent downhole gauges. We provide both standard and customized protection systems, and we utilize a range of materials in our products for various downhole environments. SandGuard and Cycl1 completion tools extend the useful life of an ESP by protecting it against sand and other solids after shutdown. Casing and cementing tools . Through our Davis Lynch branded downhole well construction operations, we design and manufacture products used in the construction of oil and natural gas wells. We design and manufacture a full range of centralizers, float equipment, stage cementing tools, inflatable packers, flotation collars, cementing plugs, mudline suspension and surge reduction equipment. Our products are used globally in the construction of onshore and offshore wells. Completion products . We manufacture a line of downhole composite plugs, which are primarily used for zonal isolation during multi stage hydraulic fracturing in horizontal and vertical wells. Our primary customers in this product line are oil and natural gas producers, and service companies providing completions, artificial lift and other intervention services to producers. Stimulation and Intervention . We provide a broad range of high pressure pumps and flow equipment used by well stimulation, or pressure pumping, companies during stimulation, intervention (principally plug and perforation activity) and flowback processes. We design and manufacture power end and fluid end assemblies, industrial heat exchanger and cooling systems, manifolds and manifold trailers, and treating iron. Frequent refurbishment and recertification of flow equipment is critical to ensuring the reliable and safe operation of a pressure pumping company s fleet. We perform these services at various locations as well as operating a fleet of mobile refurbishment and recertification tractor trailers, which can be deployed to the customer s yards. We serve many of the most active basins across North America and seek to position our stocking and service locations in proximity to our customers operations. We also manufacture pressure control products that are used for well intervention operations and sold to oilfield service companies and equipment rental companies both domestically and internationally including blowout preventers for wireline units and our Hydraulic Latch Assembly. In addition, we manufacture state of the art electro mechanical wireline cables as well as EnviroLite (greaseless) cables. We also conduct aftermarket refurbishment and recertification services for pressure control equipment. Our primary customers in the Stimulation and Intervention product line are pressure pumping and flowback service companies, although we also generate sales to original equipment manufacturers of pressure pumping units. Coiled Tubing . We manufacture Global Tubing branded coiled tubing strings and coiled line pipe and provide related services. Coiled tubing strings are consumable comp1nts of coiled tubing units that perform well completion and intervention activities. Our coiled line pipe offering serves as an alternative to the conventional line pipe in onshore and subsea applications. We invested in Global Tubing, LLC ( Global Tubing ) with a joint venture partner (with Global Tubing management retaining a small interest) in 2013 In the fourth quarter of 2017, we acquired the remaining membership interests in Global Tubing. Additional details about the acquisition are included in Note 4 Acquisitions & Dispositions . Our primary customers in the Coiled Tubing product line are service companies that provide coiled tubing services globally. 5 Table of Contents Production & Infrastructure segment In our Production & Infrastructure segment, we design, manufacture and supply products and provide related equipment and services to production and infrastructure markets. Through this segment, we supply production equipment, including well site production and process equipment, and a broad range of industrial and process valves. The level of spending to bring new wells on production, including the related infrastructure, is the primary driver for our Production & Infrastructure segment. Our Production Equipment product line also has exposure to the amount of spending on midstream and downstream projects, as it offers products that go from the well site to inside the refinery fence. Our Valve Solutions product line is impacted by the level of infrastructure additions, upgrades and maintenance activities across the oil and natural gas industry, including the upstream, midstream and downstream sectors. In addition, our valves are used in the power, process, petrochemical and mining industries. Production Equipment . Our Production Equipment product line provides engineered process systems and field services for capital equipment used at the wellsite and, for production processing, in the U.S. Once a well has been drilled, completed and brought on stream, we provide the well operator or producer with the process equipment necessary to make the oil or natural gas ready for transmission. We engineer, fabricate and install separators, packaged production systems and American Society of Mechanical Engineers ( ASME ) and American Petroleum Institute ( API ) coded pressure vessels, skidded vessels with gas measurement, modular process plants, header and manifold skids, process and flow control equipment and separators to help clean and process oil or natural gas as it travels from the wellhead and along the transmission line to the refinery. Our customers are principally oil and natural gas operators or producers . We also design and provide process oil treatment equipment, including desalters and dehydrators, used in refineries worldwide. We have a team of technicians and field service engineers for repair and installation, and we supply a broad range of replacement parts for our equipment and other manufacturers. This equipment removes sand, water and suspended solids from hydrocarbons prior to their refining. Valve Solutions . We design, manufacture and provide a wide range of industrial valves that principally serve the upstream, midstream and downstream markets of the oil and natural gas industry. To a lesser extent, our valves serve general industrial, power and process industry customers as well as the mining industry. We provide ball, gate, globe, check and butterfly valves across a range of sizes and applications. We market our valves to our customers and end users through our recognized brands PBV , DSI , Quadrant , Accuseal , Cooper Alloy TM , and ABZ . Much of our production is sold through distribution supply companies, with our marketing efforts targeting end users for pull through of our valve products. Our global sales force and representatives cover approximately 30 countries, with local sales and distribution in Canada. Our Canadian operations provide significant exposure to the heavy oil projects. Our manufacturing and supply chain systems enable us to design and produce high quality engineered valves, as well as provide standardized products, while maintaining competitive pricing and minimizing capital requirements. We also utilize our international manufacturing partners to produce comp1nts and completed products for a number of our other valve brands. Depending on the product, we manufacture our valves to conform to the standards of 1 or more of the API, American National Standards Institute, American Bureau of Shipping, and International Organization for Standardization and or other relevant standards governing the design and manufacture of industrial valves. Through our Valve Solutions product line, we participate in the API standard setting process. Business history Forum was incorporated in 2005 and formed through a series of acquisitions. In August 2010, Forum Oilfield Technologies, Inc. was renamed Forum Energy Technologies, Inc., when four other companies were merged into Forum. On April 17, 2012, we completed our initial public offering. 6 Table of Contents Backlog As we provide a mix of consumable products, capital goods, repair parts, and rental services, a majority of our business does not require lengthy lead times. The majority of the orders and commitments included in our backlog as of December 31, 2018 were scheduled to be delivered within six months. Our backlog was approximately $276 million at December 31, 2018 and approximately $222 million at December 31, 2017 . Substantially all of the projects currently in our backlog are subject to change and or termination at the option of the customer. In the case of a change or termination, the customer is generally required to pay us for work performed and other costs necessarily incurred as a result of the change or termination. It is difficult to predict how much of our current backlog will be delayed or terminated, or subject to changes, as well as our ability to collect termination or change fees. Our consumable and repair products are predominantly off the shelf Item requiring short lead times, generally less than six months, and our related refurbishment or other services are also not contracted with significant lead time. The composition of our backlog is reflective of our mix of capital equipment, consumable products, aftermarket and other related Item. Our bookings, which consist of written orders or commitments for our products or related services, during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 were approximately $1,116 million and $870 million, respectively. Customers No customer represented more than 10% of consolidated revenue in any of the last 3 years. Seasonality A substantial portion of our business is not significantly impacted by seasonality. We do, however, generally experience lower sales and profitability in the fourth quarter due to a decrease in working days caused by calendar year end holidays, and manufacturing and shipping delays caused by weather. In addition, given the geographic proximity of a number of our facilities to the Gulf Coast, we are subject to business interruptions caused by hurricanes and tropical storms. A small portion of the revenue we generate from select Canadian operations often benefits from higher first quarter activity levels, as operators take advantage of the winter freeze to gain access to remote drilling and production areas. Revenue exposed to this type of seasonality, however, comprised less than 5% of our overall revenue in 2018 . Competition The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with a number of companies, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do. The principal competitive factors in our markets are product quality and performance, price, breadth of product offering, availability of products and services, distribution capabilities, responsiveness to customer needs, reputation for service and intellectual property rights. We believe our products and services in each segment are at least comparable in price, quality, performance and dependability with our competitors offerings. We seek to differentiate ourselves from our competitors by providing a rapid response to the needs of our customers, a high level of customer service, and innovative product development initiatives. Some of our competitors expend greater amounts of m1y on formal research and engineering efforts than we do. We believe, however, that our product development efforts are enhanced by the investment of management time we make to improve our customer service and to work with our customers on their specific product needs and challenges. Although we have no single competitor across all of our product lines, the companies we compete with across the greatest number of our product lines include Cameron International Corporation (a subsidiary of Schlumberger), Gardner Denver Holdings, Inc., National Oilwell Varco, Inc., TechnipFMC plc, Tenaris S.A., Weatherford International, Ltd., and Weir SPM, a subsidiary of The Weir Group. Patents, trademarks and other intellectual property We currently hold multiple U.S. and international patents and trademarks and have a number of pending patent and trademark applications. Although in the aggregate our patents, trademarks and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent, trademark or license as material to our business as a whole. Raw materials We acquire comp1nt parts, products and raw materials from suppliers, including foundries, forge shops, and original equipment manufacturers. The prices we pay for our raw materials may be affected by, among other things, energy, steel and other commodity prices, tariffs and duties on imported materials and foreign currency exchange rates. Certain of our comp1nt parts, products or raw materials, such as bearings, are only available from a limited number of suppliers. Please see Risk factors Risks related to our business We are subject to the risk of supplier concentration. 7 Table of Contents We may not be able to continue to purchase raw materials on a timely basis or at acceptable prices. We generally try to purchase raw materials from multiple suppliers so that we are not dependent on any 1 supplier, but this is not always possible. Working capital We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and cash equivalents, short term investments, and cash flow generated from operations. In addition, our senior secured revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility ) is available for working capital needs. For a summary of our Credit Facility, please read Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Inventory An important consideration for many of our customers in selecting a vendor is timely availability of the product. Customers may pay a premium for earlier or immediate availability because of the cost of delays in critical operations. We stock our consumable products in regional warehouses around the world so that these products are available for our customers when needed. This availability is especially critical for certain consumable products, causing us to carry substantial inventories for these products. For critical capital Item 1n which demand is expected to be strong, we often build certain Item before we have a firm order. Our having such goods available on short notice can be of great value to our customers. We also stock raw materials and comp1nts in order to be in a position to build products in response to market demand. We typically offer our customers payment terms of 30 days, although during downturns in activity such as our industry experienced in the fourth quarter of 2018, customers often take 60 days or more to settle accounts. For sales into certain countries or for select customers, we might require payment upfront or credit support through a letter of credit. For longer term projects, we typically require progress payments as important milest1s are reached. On average, we collect our receivables in about 60 days from shipment resulting in a substantial investment in accounts receivable. Likewise, standard terms with our vendors are 60 days. For critical Item sourced from significant vendors, we have settled accounts more quickly, sometimes in exchange for early payment discounts. Environmental, transportation, health and safety regulation Our operations are subject to numerous stringent and complex laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, health and safety aspects of our operations, or otherwise relating to human health and environmental protection. We also operate vehicles that are subject to federal and state transportation regulations. Failure to comply with these laws or regulations or to obtain or comply with permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of remedial or corrective action requirements, and the imposition of injunctions to prohibit certain activities or force future compliance. The trend in environmental regulation has been to impose increasingly stringent restrictions and limitations on activities that may impact the environment, and thus, any changes in environmental laws and regulations or in enforcement policies that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal, or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. Moreover, accidental releases or spills of regulated substances may occur in the course of our operations, and if so, we may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of such releases or spills, including any third party claims for damage to property, natural resources or persons. The following is a summary of the more significant existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which our business operations are subject and for which compliance may have a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, results of operations or financial position. Hazardous substances and waste The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (the RCRA ) and comparable state statutes, regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the Environmental Protection Agency (the EPA ), the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of the RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. We are required to manage the transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous and non hazardous wastes in compliance with the RCRA. 8 Table of Contents The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (the CERCLA ), also known as the Superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and any1 who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. We currently own, lease, or operate numerous properties that have been used for manufacturing and other operations for many years. We also contract with waste removal services and landfills. These properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to the CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property, or perform remedial operations to prevent future contamination. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances released into the environment. Water discharges The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (the Clean Water Act ) and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the U.S. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or an analogous state agency. A responsible party includes the owner or operator of a facility from which a discharge occurs. The Clean Water Act and analogous state laws provide for administrative, civil and criminal penalties for unauthorized discharges and, together with the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, impose rigorous requirements for spill prevention and response planning, as well as substantial potential liability for the costs of removal, remediation, and damages in connection with any unauthorized discharges. Air emissions The Federal Clean Air Act (the Clean Air Act ) and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other emission control requirements. In addition, the EPA has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. Non compliance with air permits or other requirements of the Clean Air Act and associated state laws and regulations can result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, as well as the issuance of orders or injunctions limiting or prohibiting non compliant operations. Climate change In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases ( GHGs ) present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and almost 1 half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal. In April 2016, the U.S. signed the Paris Agreement, which requires member countries to review and represent a progression in their nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals, every five years. In June 2017, President Trump announced that the U.S. will withdraw from the Paris Agreement unless it is renegotiated. The State Department informed the United Nations of the U.S. withdrawal in August 2017. However, the earliest effective date of this withdrawal pursuant to the terms of the Paris Agreement is November 2020. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas produced by our customers. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and 9 Table of Contents floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. For more information, please read Risk Factors Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products . Hydraulic fracturing A significant percentage of our customers oil and natural gas production is being developed from unconventional sources, such as hydrocarbon shales. These formations require hydraulic fracturing completion processes to release the oil or natural gas from the rock so that it can flow through the formations. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate production. A number of federal agencies, including the EPA and the U.S. Department of Energy, are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with shale development, including hydraulic fracturing. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent disclosure and or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. Local governments may also seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular, in some cases banning hydraulic fracturing entirely. We cannot predict whether any such legislation will ever be enacted and if so, what its provisions would be. If additional levels of regulation and permits were required through the adoption of new laws and regulations at the federal or state level, that could lead to delays, increased operating costs and process prohibitions for our customers that could reduce demand for our products and services, which would have a material adverse impact on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. For more information, please read Risk Factors Potential legislation or regulations restricting the use of hydraulic fracturing could reduce demand for our products. Employee health and safety We are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act ( OSHA ) and comparable state statutes, establishing requirements to protect the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community right to know regulations under Title III of the federal Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act and comparable state statutes require that information be maintained concerning hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and the public. Substantial fines and penalties can be imposed and orders or injunctions limiting or prohibiting certain operations may be issued in connection with any failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety. For more information, please read Risk Factors Potential legislation or regulations restricting the use of hydraulic fracturing could reduce demand for our products. Offshore regulation Events in recent years have heightened environmental and regulatory concerns about the offshore oil and natural gas industry. From time to time, governing bodies may propose and have enacted legislation or regulations that may materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in certain areas. If laws are enacted or other governmental actions are taken that delay, restrict or prohibit offshore operations in our customers expected areas of operation, our business could be materially adversely affected. New or newly interpreted regulations and other regulatory initiatives by U.S. governmental agencies have created significant uncertainty regarding the outlook for offshore activity in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and possible implications for regions outside of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Third party challenges to industry operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico may also serve to further delay or restrict activities. If the new regulations, operating procedures and possibility of increased legal liability are viewed by our current or future customers as a significant impairment to expected profitability on projects, then they could discontinue or curtail their offshore operations thereby reducing demand for our offshore products and services. We also operate in non U.S. jurisdictions, which may impose similar regulations, prohibitions or liabilities. Operating risk and insurance We maintain insurance coverage of types and amounts that we believe to be customary and reasonable for companies of our size and with similar operations. In accordance with industry practice, however, we do not maintain insurance coverage against all of the operating risks to which our business is exposed. Therefore, there is a risk our insurance program may not be sufficient to cover any particular loss or all losses. Currently, our insurance program includes coverage for, among other things, general liability, umbrella liability, sudden and accidental pollution, personal property, vehicle, workers compensation, and employer liability coverage. 10 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2018 , we had approximately 2,500 employees. Of our total employees, approximately 2,000 were in the U.S., 200 were in the United Kingdom, 100 were in Germany, 100 were in Canada and 100 were in all other locations. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements, other than in our Hamburg, Germany and Monterrey, Mexico facilities. We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory. 11 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to our business We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from companies in or affiliated with the oil and natural gas industry, a historically cyclical industry, with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and natural gas prices. As a result, this cyclicality has caused, and will continue to cause fluctuations in our revenues and results of our operations. We have experienced, and will continue to experience, fluctuations in revenues and operating results due to economic and business cycles. The willingness of oil and natural gas operators to make capital expenditures to explore for and produce oil and natural gas, the willingness of oilfield service companies to invest in capital equipment and the need of these customers to replenish consumable parts depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control. Such factors include supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and natural gas; ability or willingness of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) and other countries, such as Russia, to influence oil and natural gas prices through voluntary production limits; cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; level of drilling and completions activity; expected decline in rates of current and future production, or faster than anticipated declines in production; discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves; ability of our customers to access new markets or areas of production or to continue to access current markets; weather conditions, including hurricanes, that can affect oil and natural gas operations over a wide area; more stringent environmental regulations; moratoriums on drilling activity resulting in a cessation or disruption of operations; domestic and worldwide economic conditions; financial stability of our customers and other industry participants; political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries; shareholder activism or activities by non governmental organizations to restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas; conservation measures and technological advances affecting energy consumption; price and availability of alternative energy resources; availability of alternative fuels; uncertainty in capital and commodities markets, and the ability of oil and natural gas companies to raise equity capital and debt financing; and merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers, drilling contractors and oilfield service companies. In the second half of 2014, the oil and natural gas industry began to experience a prolonged reduction in the overall level of exploration and development activities as a result of the decline in commodity prices that continued into late 2016. As a result, many of our customers reduced or delayed their oil and natural gas exploration and production spending, reducing the demand for our products and services and exerting downward pressure on the prices that we charge . These conditions adversely impacted our business. The crude oil prices started to increase over the course of 2017, and continued to strengthen in 2018, but declined again in the fourth quarter of 2018. Although we have experienced strong incremental demand growth over the last years, it is uncertain whether commodity prices and demand will maintain these levels or increase materially in 2019 . Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the demand or pricing for oil and natural gas will follow historic patterns or continue to recover meaningfully in the near term. Declines in oil and natural gas prices and decreased levels of exploration, development, and production activity relative to historical norms may negatively affect revenues, cash flows, and profitability; 12 Table of Contents the ability to maintain or increase borrowing capacity; the ability to obtain additional capital to finance our business and the cost of that capital; the ability to collect outstanding amounts from our customers; and the ability to attract and retain skilled personnel to maintain our business or that will be needed in the event of an upturn in the demand for our products. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and some of our competitors hold substantial market share and have substantially greater resources than we do. We may not be able to compete successfully in this environment and, in particular, against a much larger competitor. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and our products and services are subject to competition from significantly larger businesses. 1 competitor in particular holds a substantially greater market share than us in 1 of our product lines and has substantially greater resources than we do. We also have several other competitors that are large national and multinational companies that have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical and other resources and greater name recognition than we do. Some of our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services and changes in customer requirements. In addition, several of our competitors provide a much broader array of services, and have a stronger presence in more geographic markets. Our larger competitors may be able to use their size and purchasing power to seek economies of scale and pricing concessions. Furthermore, some of our customers are also our competitors and they may cease buying from us. We also have competitors outside of the U.S. with lower structural costs due to labor and raw material cost in and around their manufacturing centers, and prices based on foreign currencies. Accordingly, currency fluctuations may cause U.S. dollar priced products to be less competitive than our competitors products that are priced in other currencies. Moreover, our competitors may utilize available capacity during a period of depressed energy prices to gain market share. New competitors have also entered the markets in which we compete. We consider product quality, price, breadth of product offering, availability of products and services, performance, distribution capabilities, responsiveness to customer needs and reputation for service to be the primary competitive factors. Competitors may be able to offer more attractive pricing, duplicate strategies, or develop enhancements to products that could offer performance features that are superior to our products. In addition, we may not be able to retain key employees of entities that we acquire in the future and those employees may choose to compete against us. Competitive pressures, including those described above, and other factors could adversely affect our competitive position, resulting in a loss of market share or decreases in prices. For more information about our competitors, please read Business Competition. Given the uncertainty related to long term commodity prices and associated customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory and experience a reduction in gross margins and financial results. We cannot accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Orders are placed with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, we may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. At certain times we have built capital equipment before receiving customer orders, and we have kept our standardized downhole protection systems and certain of our flow iron products in stock and readily available for delivery on short notice from customers. Our forecasts of customer demand are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce errors into the estimates. In addition, many of our suppliers, such as those for certain of our standardized valves, require a longer lead time to provide products than our customers demand for delivery of our finished products. If we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would miss revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. Conversely, if we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to the purchase of material or manufactured products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to, if at all. As a result, we would hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce gross margin and adversely affect financial results upon writing down the value of inventory. For example, during 2018 we recognized $36.6 million of inventory write downs. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. 13 Table of Contents We may not realize revenue on our current backlog due to customer order reductions, cancellations or acceptance delays, which may negatively impact our financial results. Decreases in oil and natural gas prices and the resulting uncertainty regarding demand for our customers services have resulted in order reductions, cancellations and acceptance delays in the past, and we may experience more of these in the future. We may be unable to collect revenue for all of the orders reflected in our backlog, or we may be unable to collect cancellation penalties, to the extent we have the right to impose them, or the revenues may be pushed into future periods. In addition, customers who are more highly leveraged or otherwise unable to pay their creditors in the ordinary course of business may become insolvent or be unable to operate as a going concern. We may be unable to collect amounts due or damages we are awarded from these customers, and our efforts to collect such amounts may damage our customer relationships. Our results of operations and overall financial condition may be negatively impacted by a reduction in revenue as a result of these circumstances. Our indebtedness could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. We currently have a substantial amount of indebtedness, including $400.0 million of 6.25% senior unsecured notes due October 2021, and $119.0 million outstanding under our $300.0 million Credit Facility. Our level of indebtedness may adversely affect our operations and limit our growth, and we may have difficulty making debt service payments on our indebtedness as such payments become due. Our level of indebtedness may affect our operations in several ways, including the following our indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; the covenants contained in the agreements that govern our indebtedness limit our ability to borrow funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments; our debt covenants also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in its industry; any failure to comply with the financial or other covenants of our indebtedness could result in an event of default, which could result in some or all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable; our indebtedness could impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to meet our debt obligations. Tariffs imposed by the United States government could continue to adversely affect our results of operations. The President of the United States has issued proclamations imposing tariffs on imports of selected products, including those sourced from China. In particular, the U.S. government has imposed global tariffs on certain imported steel and aluminum products pursuant to Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as well as tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese imports pursuant to Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974. In response, China and other countries have imposed retaliatory tariffs on a wide range of U.S. products, including those containing steel and aluminum. Our efforts to mitigate the impact of these tariffs on raw materials through the diversification of our supply chain may not be sufficiently successful. Furthermore, a prolonged imposition of tariffs on our goods could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. Facility consolidations or expansions may subject us to risks of operating inefficiencies, construction delays and cost overruns. We have consolidated and may continue to consolidate facilities to achieve operating efficiencies and reduce costs. These facility consolidations may be delayed and cause us to incur increased costs, product or service delivery delays, decreased responsiveness to customer needs, liabilities under terms and conditions of sale or other operational inefficiencies, or may not provide the benefits we anticipate. We may lose key personnel and operational knowledge that might lead to quality issues or delays in production. In the future, we may grow our businesses through the construction of new facilities and expansions of our existing facilities. These projects, and any other capital asset construction projects that we may commence, are subject to similar risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following difficulties or delays in obtaining land; shortages of key equipment, materials or skilled labor; unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; 14 Table of Contents unanticipated cost increases; weather interferences; and difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions. The industry in which we operate is undergoing continuing consolidation that may impact our results of operations. Some of our largest customers have consolidated and are using their size and purchasing power to achieve economies of scale and pricing concessions. This consolidation could result in reduced capital spending by such customers or decreased demand for our products and services. If we cannot maintain sales levels for customers that have consolidated or replace such revenues with increased business activities from other customers, this consolidation activity could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations or financial condition. We are unable to predict what effect consolidations in the industry may have on prices, capital spending by customers, selling strategies, competitive position, customer retention or our ability to negotiate favorable agreements with customers. A portion of our business is driven by our customers spending on capital equipment such as drilling rigs. As a result of a greater focus by our customers on maintaining capital discipline, spending may decline or remain at a low level despite an increase in commodity prices. Leading up to 2014, in various segments of the energy industry, high levels of investment in capital intensive equipment were typically linked with high commodity prices. Following 2014, as commodity prices and activity levels declined, there was an oversupply of capital equipment and corresponding reduction in the demand for construction of these products. More recently, our customers and their investors have adopted business strategies placing significant emphasis on capital discipline that may limit the level of their future spending. As a result, we cannot provide any assurance that our capital equipment sales will increase if there is an increase in commodity prices. Technological advances have rendered drilling more efficient, reducing the amount of capital equipment required to drill the same number of wells and the demand for our products. New techniques and technological advances have reduced the number of days required to drill wells. The number of days required for a drilling rig to be on a site to drill a well has in many areas been reduced by at least half over the last several years. This has exacerbated the oversupply of drilling rigs and may lengthen the time until significant capital investment is required by our drilling company customers. These advances may also result in a lower overall level of capital investment when the current generation of drilling rigs is required to be replaced. We may be impacted by disruptions in the political, regulatory, economic and social conditions of the foreign countries in which we are expected to conduct business. Instability and unforeseen changes in the international markets in which we conduct business, including economically and politically volatile areas such as North Africa, the Middle East, Latin America and the Asia Pacific region, could cause or contribute to factors that could have an adverse effect on the demand for the products and services we provide. For example, we have previously transferred management and operations from certain Latin American countries, due to the presence of political turmoil, to other countries in the region that are more politically stable. In addition, worldwide political, economic, and military events have contributed to oil and natural gas price volatility and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Depending on the market prices of oil and natural gas, oil and natural gas exploration and development companies may cancel or curtail their drilling programs, thereby reducing demand for our products and services. Our common stock price has been volatile, and we expect it to continue to remain volatile in the future. The market price of common stock of companies engaged in the oil and natural gas equipment manufacturing and services industry has been volatile. Likewise, the market price of our common stock has varied significantly in the past. For example, in 2018 , the market price of our common stock reached a high of $17.95 per share on January 23, 2018 and a low of $351 per share on December 26, 2018. We expect it to continue to remain volatile given the cyclical nature of our industry. 15 Table of Contents Given the historically cyclical nature of the oil and natural gas industry, our operating history may not be sufficient for investors to evaluate our business and prospects. Relative to many of our competitors, we have a relatively short operating history as a public company. In addition, we have completed sixteen acquisitions since our initial public offering. Furthermore, the oil and natural gas industry is historically cyclical, which may cause analysts evaluation of our business, in our view, to be inaccurate. These factors may make it more difficult for investors to evaluate our business and prospects, and to forecast our future operating results. As a result, historical financial data may not provide an accurate indication of what our actual results would have been if subsequent acquisitions had been completed at the beginning of the periods presented or what our future results of operations are likely to be. Our future results will depend on our ability to efficiently manage our combined operations and execute our business strategy. We are subject to the risk of supplier concentration. Certain of our product lines depend on a limited number of third party suppliers. In some cases, the suppliers own the intellectual property rights to the products we sell, or possess the technology or specialized tooling required to manufacture them. As a result of this concentration in part of our supply chain, our business and operations that have been negatively affected if our key suppliers were to experience significant disruptions affecting the price, quality, availability or timely delivery of their products, or if they were to decide to terminate their relationships with us. For example, we have a limited number of suppliers for our bearings product lines and certain of our valve product lines. The limited number of these suppliers restricted the quantity and timeliness of customer deliveries. The partial or complete loss of any 1 of our key suppliers, or a significant adverse change in the relationship with any of these suppliers, through consolidation or otherwise, would limit our ability to manufacture and sell certain of our products. Our business depends upon our ability to obtain key raw materials and specialized equipment from suppliers. Increased costs of raw materials and other comp1nts may result in increased operating expenses. Should our suppliers be unable to provide the necessary raw materials or finished products or otherwise fail to deliver such materials and products timely and in the quantities required, resulting delays in the provision of products or services to customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, because many of our products are manufactured out of steel, we are particularly susceptible to fluctuations in steel prices. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by our inability to manage the rising costs and availability of raw materials and comp1nts used in our products. If suppliers cannot provide adequate quantities of materials to meet customers demands on a timely basis or if the quality of the materials provided does not meet established standards, we may lose customers or experience lower profitability. Some of our customer contracts require us to compensate customers if we do not meet specified delivery obligations. We rely on suppliers to provide required materials and in many instances these materials must meet certain specifications. Managing a geographically diverse supply base poses inherently significant logistical challenges. Furthermore, the ability of third party suppliers to deliver materials to our specifications may be affected by events beyond our control. As a result, there is a risk that we could experience diminished supplier performance resulting in longer than expected lead times and or product quality issues. For example, in the past, we have experienced issues with the quality of certain forgings used to produce materials utilized in our products. As a result, we were required to seek alternative suppliers for those forgings, which resulted in increased costs and a disruption in our supply chain. We have also been required in certain circumstances to provide better economic terms to some of our suppliers in exchange for their agreement to increase their capacity to satisfy our supply needs. The occurrence of any of the foregoing factors could have a negative impact on our ability to deliver products to customers within committed time frames. A failure or breach of our information technology infrastructure, including as a result of cyber attacks or failures of data protection measures, could adversely impact our business and results of operations and expose us to potential liabilities. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology ( IT ) systems. Accordingly, we rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our IT hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing needs. Despite our implementation of security measures, our IT systems are vulnerable to computer viruses, natural disasters, incursions by intruders or hackers, failures in hardware or software, power fluctuations, cyber terrorists and other similar disruptions. The failure of our IT systems to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and result in numerous adverse consequences, including reduced effectiveness and efficiency of our operations and that of our customers, inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, increased overhead costs, and loss of intellectual property, which 16 Table of Contents could lead to liability to third parties or otherwise and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to prevent damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. In addition, recent laws and regulations governing data privacy and the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, including the European Union General Data Protection Regulation and laws enacted in certain U.S. jurisdictions, pose increasingly complex compliance challenges and potentially elevate our costs. Any failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations, including as a result of a security or privacy breach, could result in significant penalties and liabilities for us. Additionally, if we acquire a company that has violated or is not in compliance with applicable data protection laws, we may incur significant liabilities and penalties as a result. Our success depends on our ability to implement new technologies and services more efficiently and quickly than our competitors. Our success depends on our ability to develop and implement new product designs and improvements that meet our customer needs in a manner equal to or more effective than those offered by our competitors. If we are not able to continue to provide new and innovative services and technologies in a manner that allows us to meet evolving industry requirements at prices acceptable to our customers, our financial results may be negatively affected. In addition, some of our competitors are large national and multinational companies that may be able to devote greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources to research and develop more or better systems, services and technologies than we are able to do. Moreover, as a result of the currently depressed levels of customer activity, we may be unable to allocate material amounts of capital to research and new product development activities, which may limit our ability to compete in the market and generate revenue. Our success will be affected by the use and protection of our proprietary technology. Due to the limitations of our intellectual property rights, our ability to exclude others from the use of our proprietary technology may be reduced. Our success will be affected by our development and implementation of new product designs and improvements and by our ability to protect and maintain intellectual property assets related to these developments. Although in many cases our products are not protected by any registered intellectual property rights, in some cases we rely on a combination of patents and trade secret laws to establish and protect this proprietary technology. We currently hold multiple U.S. and international patents and have several pending patent applications associated with our products and processes. Patent rights give the owner of a patent the right to exclude third parties from making, using, selling, and offering for sale the inventions claimed in the patents in the applicable country. Patent rights do not necessarily grant the owner of a patent the right to practice the invention claimed in a patent, but merely the right to exclude others from practicing the invention claimed in the patent. It may also be possible for a third party to design around our patents. Furthermore, patent rights have strict territorial limits. Some of our work will be conducted in international waters and may, therefore, not fall within the scope of any country patent jurisdiction. We may not be able to enforce our patents against infringement occurring in international waters and other non covered territories. Also, we do not have patents in every jurisdiction in which we conduct business and our patent portfolio will not protect all aspects of our business and may relate to obsolete or unusual methods, which would not prevent third parties from entering the same market. In addition, by customarily entering into confidentiality and or license agreements with our employees, customers and potential customers and suppliers, we attempt to limit access to and distribution of our technology. Our efforts to maintain information as trade secrets or proprietary technology are subject to determination by the judicial system and may not be successful. Furthermore, our rights in our confidential information, trade secrets, and confidential know how will not prevent third parties from independently developing similar information. Publicly available information, including information in expired issued patents, published patent applications, and scientific literature, can also be used by third parties to independently develop technology. We cannot provide assurance that this independently developed technology will not be equivalent or superior to our proprietary technology. Our competitors may infringe upon, misappropriate, violate or challenge the validity or enforceability of our intellectual property and we may not able to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights in the future. We may be adversely affected by disputes regarding intellectual property rights and the value of our intellectual property rights is uncertain. As discussed above, we may become involved in legal proceedings from time to time to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. Third parties from time to time may initiate litigation against us by asserting that the conduct of our business infringes, misappropriates or otherwise violates intellectual property rights. We may not prevail in any such legal proceedings related to such claims, and our products and services may be found to infringe, impair, 17 Table of Contents misappropriate, dilute or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others. Any legal proceeding concerning intellectual property is likely to be protracted and costly and is inherently unpredictable, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, regardless of its outcome. Further, our intellectual property rights may not have the value expected and such value may change over time as new products are designed and improved. Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our business and these officers and key personnel may not remain with us in the future. Our future success depends in substantial part on our ability to hire and retain our executive officers and other key personnel. In particular, we are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers. These individuals possess extensive expertise, talent and leadership, and they are critical to our success. The diminution or loss of the services of these individuals, or other integral key personnel affiliated with entities that we acquire in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, we may not be able to enforce all of the provisions in the agreements we have entered into with our executive officers and such employment agreements may not otherwise be effective in retaining such individuals. During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 we incurred impairment charges, and we may incur additional impairment charges in the future. For goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, an assessment for impairment is performed annually or when there is an indication an impairment may have occurred. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment by comparing the carrying value of each reporting unit net assets, including allocated goodwill, to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. We determine the fair value of each of our seven reporting units using a discounted cash flow approach. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit requires the use of estimates and assumptions. If the reporting unit carrying value is greater than its calculated fair value, we recognize a goodwill impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its fair value. For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we recognized goodwill impairment charges totaling $298.8 million and $68.0 million , respectively, which are included in Goodwill and intangible asset impairments in the consolidated statement of comprehensive loss . See Note 7 Goodwill and Intangible Assets for further information related to these charges. There was no impairment of goodwill during the year ended December 31, 2016. There are significant inherent uncertainties and management judgment in estimating the fair value of each reporting unit. While we believe we have made reasonable estimates and assumptions to estimate the fair value of our reporting units, it is possible that a material change could occur. If actual results are not consistent with our current estimates and assumptions, or if changes in macroeconomic conditions outside the control of management change such that it results in a significant negative impact to our estimated fair values, the fair value of these reporting units may decrease below their net carrying value, which could result in a material impairment of our goodwill. We evaluate our long lived assets, including property and equipment and intangible assets with definite lives, for potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long lived asset may not be recoverable. In performing our review for impairment, future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual value upon disposal are estimated. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the assets, there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. The amount of the impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the estimated fair value of the asset. The fair value is determined either through the use of an external valuation, or by means of an analysis of discounted future cash flows based on expected utilization. For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we recognized intangible asset impairment charges totaling $64.7 million and $11 million , respectively, which are included in Goodwill and intangible asset impairments in the consolidated statement of comprehensive loss . See Note 7 Goodwill and Intangible Assets for further information related to these charges. There were no impairments of intangible assets during the year ended December 31, 2016. If we determine that the carrying value of our long lived assets, goodwill or intangible assets is less than their fair value, we may be required to record additional charges in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The indenture governing our notes and our Credit Facility contains operating and financial restrictions that may restrict our business and financing activities. Our indenture and Credit Facility contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things pay dividends on, purchase or redeem our common stock; 18 Table of Contents make certain investments; incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain types of equity securities; create certain liens; sell assets, including equity interests in our restricted subsidiaries; redeem or prepay subordinated debt; restrict dividends or other payments of our restricted subsidiaries; consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; engage in transactions with affiliates; create unrestricted subsidiaries; or execute our acquisition strategy. Our Credit Facility also contains covenants, which, among other things, require us in certain circumstances, on a consolidated basis, to maintain specified financial ratios or conditions. As a result of these covenants, we may be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Our ability to borrow under the Credit Facility and comply with some of the covenants, ratios or tests contained in our indenture and Credit Facility may be affected by events beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, and there is a decrease in our accounts receivable and inventory, our ability to borrow under our Credit Facility will be reduced and our ability to comply with these covenants, ratios or tests may be impaired. A failure to comply with the covenants, ratios or tests or any future indebtedness could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital. Our ability to access capital markets or to otherwise obtain sufficient financing is enhanced by our senior unsecured debt ratings as provided by major U.S. credit rating agencies. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, commodity pricing levels and other considerations. A ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability in the future to access debt markets, increase the cost of future debt, and potentially require us to post letters of credit for certain obligations. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations may result in fluctuations in our cash flows and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could be material to us depending upon, among other things, our manufacturing locations and the sourcing for our raw materials and comp1nts. In particular, we are sensitive to fluctuations in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and each of the Canadian dollar, the British pound sterling, the Euro, and, to a lesser degree, the Mexican peso, the Chinese yuan, the Singapore dollar, and the Saudi riyal. There may be instances in which costs and revenue will not be matched with respect to currency denomination. As a result, to the extent that we continue our expansion on a global basis, management expects that increasing portions of revenue, costs, assets and liabilities will be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency valuations. We may experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings or net assets solely as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Further, the markets in which we operate could restrict the removal or conversion of the local currency, resulting in our inability to hedge against these risks. Our ability to access capital markets could be limited. From time to time, we may need to access capital markets to obtain financing. Our ability to access capital markets for financing could be limited by, among other things, oil and natural gas prices, our existing capital structure, our credit ratings, the state of the economy, the health of the drilling and overall oil and natural gas industry, and the liquidity of the capital markets. Many of the factors that affect our ability to access capital markets are outside of our control. No assurance can be given that we will be able to access capital markets on terms acceptable to us when required to do so, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During periods of high market activity, if we cannot continue operating our manufacturing facilities at adequate levels, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We operate a number of manufacturing facilities. The equipment and management systems necessary for such operations may break down, perform poorly or fail, resulting in fluctuations in manufacturing efficiencies. Such fluctuations may affect our ability to deliver quality products to our customers on a timely basis. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to continue operating successfully overseas or to successfully expand into new international markets, our revenues may decrease. For the year ended December 31, 2018 , we derived approximately 24% of our revenue from sales outside the U.S. (based on product destination). In addition, 1 of our key growth strategies is to market products in international markets. We may not succeed in selling, marketing, branding, and distributing products to generate revenues in these new international markets. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal control over financial processes and reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports that effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully. Our efforts to maintain internal control systems may not be successful. The existence of a material weakness or a failure of our internal controls could affect our ability to obtain financing or increase the cost of any such financing. The identification of a material weakness could also cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. In addition, the entities that we acquire in the future may not maintain effective systems of internal control or we may encounter difficulties integrating our system of internal controls with those of acquired entities. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls and, as a result, fail to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. Our operations and our customers operations are subject to a variety of governmental laws and regulations that may increase our and our customers costs, prohibit or curtail our customers operations in certain areas, limit the demand for our products and services or restrict our operations. Our business and our customers businesses may be significantly affected by federal, state and local U.S. and non U.S. laws and other regulations relating to oilfield operations, worker safety and protection of the environment; changes in these laws and regulations; and the level of enforcement of these laws and regulations. In addition, we depend on the demand for our products and services from the oil and natural gas industry. This demand is affected by changing taxes, price controls and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and natural gas industry in general. For example, the adoption of laws and regulations curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and natural gas for economic or other policy reasons could adversely affect our operations by limiting demand for our products. In addition, some non U.S. countries may adopt regulations or practices that provide an advantage to local oil companies in bidding for oil leases, or require local companies to perform oilfield services currently supplied by international service companies. To the extent that such companies are not our customers, or we are unable to develop relationships with them, our business may suffer. We cannot determine the extent to which our future operations and earnings may be affected by new legislation, new regulations or changes in existing regulations. Because of our non U.S. operations and sales, we are also subject to changes in non U.S. laws and regulations that may encourage or require hiring of local contractors or require non U.S. contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. If we fail to comply with any applicable law or regulation, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected. Potential legislation or regulations restricting the use of hydraulic fracturing could reduce demand for our products. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice in the oil and natural gas industry which involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into a formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production of hydrocarbons. Certain environmental advocacy groups have suggested that additional federal, state and local laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and have made claims that hydraulic fracturing techniques are harmful to surface water and drinking water resources. Various governmental entities (within and outside the U.S.) are in the process of studying, restricting, regulating or preparing to regulate hydraulic fracturing, directly or indirectly For example, the EPA released the final results of its comprehensive research study on the potential adverse impacts that hydraulic fracturing may have on drinking water resources in December 2016. The EPA concluded that hydraulic fracturing activities can impact drinking water resources under some circumstances, including large volume spills and inadequate mechanical integrity of wells. In May 2016, the EPA issued final new source performance standard requirements that impose more stringent controls on methane and volatile organic compounds emissions from oil and 20 Table of Contents natural gas development and production operations, including hydraulic fracturing and other well completion activity. The EPA finalized amendments to some requirements in these standards in March 2018 and proposed additional amendments in October, including rescission of certain requirements and revisions to other requirements such as fugitive emissions monitoring frequency . The EPA has also issued the federal Safe Drinking Water Act ( SDWA ) permitting guidance for hydraulic fracturing operations involving the use of diesel fuel in fracturing fluids in those states where the EPA is the permitting authority. Additionally, the BLM issued final rules to regulate hydraulic fracturing on federal lands in March 2015. These rules were struck down by a federal court in Wyoming in June 2016, but reinstated on appeal by the Tenth Circuit in September 2017. While this appeal was pending, BLM proposed a rulemaking in July 2017 to rescind these rules in their entirety. BLM published a final rule rescinding the 2015 rules on December 29, 2017. Several states filed judicial challenges to the BLM proposed rescission; however, these challenges were stayed by a federal court in April 2018 pending the finalization or withdrawal of the BLM February 2018 proposal. In September 2018, BLM published a final rule that largely adopted the February 2018 proposal and rescinded several requirements. The September 2018 rule was challenged in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California almost immediately after issuance. The challenge is still pending. In past sessions, Congress has considered, but not passed, the adoption of legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular, in some cases banning hydraulic fracturing entirely. For example, in February 2018, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission released a protocol that requires operators to suspend hydraulic fracturing well completion operations in response to certain levels of seismic activity. If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers operate, they could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, and production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells, some or all of which could adversely affect demand for our products and services from those customers. Our tax position may be adversely affected by changes in tax laws relating to multinational corporations, or increased scrutiny by tax authorities. We have operations in multiple countries which are subject to the jurisdiction of a significant number of taxing authorities. The final determination of our income tax liabilities involves the interpretation of local tax laws, tax treaties and related authorities in each jurisdiction, as well as the significant use of estimates and assumptions. The U.S. Congress and government agencies in non U.S. jurisdictions where we, and our affiliates, do business have recently focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. Additionally, we are impacted by U.S. legislation enacted in December 2017, known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 ( the Act ). The Act made substantial changes in the taxation of U.S. and multinational corporations, which included, among other things, reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% starting in 2018 and creating a quasi territorial tax system with a 1 time mandatory tax on previously deferred earnings of non U.S. subsidiaries. As a result of the enactment of the Act, we recognized a $10.1 million tax expense in the fourth quarter of 2017 and a $15.6 million tax benefit in 2018 . We cannot predict whether any additional legislation or any regulatory or other administrative guidance could materially adversely affect us. Our operations are subject to environmental and operational safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to numerous stringent and complex laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, health and safety aspects of our operations, or otherwise relating to human health and environmental protection. These laws and regulations may, among other things, regulate the management and disposal of hazardous and nonhazardous wastes; require acquisition of environmental permits related to our operations; restrict the types, quantities, and concentrations of various materials that can be released into the environment; limit or prohibit operational activities in certain ecologically sensitive and other protected areas; regulate specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; require compliance with operational and equipment standards; impose testing, reporting and recordkeeping requirements; and require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or to obtain or comply with permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of remedial or corrective action requirements and the imposition of injunctions to prohibit certain activities or force future compliance. Certain environmental laws may impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered 21 Table of Contents to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. In addition, these risks may be greater for us because the companies we acquire or have acquired may not have allocated sufficient resources and management focus to environmental compliance, potentially requiring rehabilitative efforts during the integration process or exposing us to liability before such rehabilitation occurs. The trend in environmental regulation has been to impose increasingly stringent restrictions and limitations on activities that may impact the environment. The implementation of new laws and regulations could result in materially increased costs, stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and increased capital expenditures and operating costs, particularly for our customers. We may incur liabilities, fines, penalties or additional costs, or we may be unable to sell to certain customers if we do not maintain safe operations. If we fail to comply with safety regulations or maintain an acceptable level of safety at our facilities, we may incur fines, penalties or other liabilities, or we may be held criminally liable. In addition, a substantial portion of our work force is made up of newer employees who are less experienced and therefore more pr1 to injury. As a result, new employees require ongoing training and a higher degree of oversight. We may incur additional costs to encourage training and ensure proper oversight of these shorter service employees. Moreover, we may incur costs in connection with equipment upgrades, or other costs to facilitate our compliance with safety regulations. Failure to maintain safe operations or achieve certain safety performance metrics could disqualify us from doing business with certain customers, particularly major oil companies. Our non U.S. operations will subject us to special risks. We are subject to various risks inherent in conducting business operations in locations outside of the U.S. These risks may include changes in regional, political or economic conditions, local laws and policies, including taxes, trade protection measures, and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements governing the operations of companies that operate outside of the U.S. In addition, if a dispute arises from international operations, courts outside of the U.S. may have exclusive jurisdiction over the dispute, or we may not be able to subject persons outside of the U.S. to the jurisdiction of U.S. courts. Our business operations worldwide are subject to a number of U.S. federal laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ( FCPA ) as well as trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and the Commerce Department, as well as similar laws in non U.S. jurisdictions that govern our operations by virtue of our presence or activities there. We rely on a large number of agents in non U.S. countries that have been identified as posing a high risk of corrupt activities and whose local laws and customs differ significantly from those in the U.S. In many countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by the regulations applicable to us. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti corruption laws in other jurisdictions, including the UK Bribery Act 2010, ( anti corruption laws ) prohibit corporations and individuals from engaging in certain activities to obtain or retain business or to influence a person working in an official capacity. We may be held responsible for violations by our employees, contractors and agents for violations of anti corruption laws. We may also be held responsible for violations by an acquired company that occurs prior to an acquisition, or subsequent to an acquisition but before we are able to institute our compliance procedures. In addition, our non U.S. competitors that are not subject to the FCPA or similar anti corruption laws may be able to secure business or other preferential treatment in such countries by means that such laws prohibit with respect to us. The UK Bribery Act 2010 is broader in scope than the FCPA and applies to public and private sector corruption and contains no facilitating payments exception. A violation of any of these laws, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation, be expensive to defend, impair our ability to do business, and cause us to incur civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions. Compliance with regulations relating to export controls, trade sanctions and embargoes administered by the countries in which we operate, including the U.S. Department of the Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control ( OFAC ) and similar regulations in non U.S. jurisdictions also pose a risk to us. We cannot provide products or services to certain countries, companies or individuals subject to trade sanctions of the U.S. and other countries. Furthermore, the laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export controls and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from governmental contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges. 22 Table of Contents Unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain areas in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements, other than in our Hamburg, Germany and Monterrey, Mexico facilities. We operate in certain states within the U.S. and in international areas that have a history of unionization and we may become the subject of a unionization campaign. If some or all of our workforce were to become unionized and collective bargaining agreement terms, including any renegotiation of our Hamburg, Germany and Monterrey, Mexico collective bargaining agreements, were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements or work practices, our costs could be increased, our flexibility in terms of work schedules and reductions in force could be limited, and we could be subject to strikes or work slowdowns, among other things. We are subject to litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance. In the ordinary course of business, we become the subject of claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings seeking damages or other remedies concerning our commercial operations, products, employees and other matters, including occasional claims by individuals alleging exposure to hazardous materials as a result of our products or operations. Some of these claims relate to the activities of businesses that we have acquired, even though these activities may have occurred prior to our acquisition of such businesses. Our insurance does not cover all of our potential losses, and we are subject to various self insured retentions and deductibles under our insurance. A judgment may be rendered against us in cases in which we could be uninsured or which exceed the amounts that we currently have reserved or anticipate incurring for such matters. The number and cost of our current and future asbestos claims could be substantially higher than we have estimated and the timing of payment of claims could be so1r than we have estimated. 1 of our subsidiaries has been and continues to be named as a defendant in asbestos related product liability actions. The actual amounts expended on asbestos related claims in any year may be impacted by the number of claims filed, the nature of the allegations asserted in the claims, the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, and the number of settlements. As of December 31, 2018 , our subsidiary has a net liability of $0.3 million for the estimated indemnity cost associated with the resolution of its current open claims and future claims anticipated to be filed during the next five years. Due to a number of uncertainties, the actual costs of resolving these pending claims could be substantially higher than the current estimate. Among these are uncertainties as to the ultimate number and type of lawsuits filed, the amounts of claim costs, the impact of bankruptcies of other companies with asbestos suits or of our insurers, and potential legislative changes and uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case. In addition, future claims beyond the five year forecast period are possible, but the accrual does not cover losses that may arise from such additional future claims. Therefore, any such future claims could result in a loss. Significant costs are incurred in defending asbestos claims and these costs are recorded at the time incurred. Receipt of reimbursement from our insurers may be delayed for a variety of reasons. In particular, if our primary insurers claim that certain policy limits have been exhausted, we may be delayed in receiving reimbursement due to the transition from 1 set of insurers to another. Our excess insurers may also dispute the claims of exhaustion, or may rely on certain policy requirements to delay or deny claims. Furthermore, the various per occurrence and aggregate limits in different insurance policies may result in extended negotiations or the denial of reimbursement for particular claims. For more information on the cost sharing agreements related to this risk, refer to Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies . Compliance with government regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals may result in increased costs and risks to us. As part of the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 ( Dodd Frank ), the SEC has promulgated disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, known as conflict minerals. We are required to publicly disclose our process for determining whether the products we sell contain conflict minerals and could incur significant costs to meet the mandates of Dodd Frank. Additionally, customers may rely on us to provide critical data regarding the parts they purchase and will likely request conflict mineral information. We have many suppliers and each will provide conflict mineral information in a different manner, if at all. Accordingly, because the supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of certain minerals used in our products. Additionally, customers may demand that the products they purchase be free of conflict minerals. The implementation of this requirement could affect the sourcing and availability of products we purchase from our suppliers. This may reduce the number of suppliers that are able to provide conflict free products, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand or at competitive prices. In addition, there may be material 23 Table of Contents costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any relevant minerals used in our products, as well as costs arising from any changes as a consequence of such verification activities. We may incur liabilities to customers as a result of warranty claims that could adversely affect our reputation, ability to obtain future business and earnings. We provide warranties as to the proper operation and conformance to specifications of the products we manufacture or install. Failure of our products to operate properly or to meet specifications may increase costs by requiring additional engineering resources and services, replacement of parts and equipment or m1tary reimbursement to a customer. We have in the past received warranty claims, and we expect to continue to receive them in the future. To the extent that we incur substantial warranty claims in any period, our reputation, ability to obtain future business and earnings could be adversely affected. Our products are used in operations that are subject to potential hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry and, as a result, we are exposed to potential liabilities that may affect our financial condition and reputation. Our products are used in potentially hazardous completion, production and drilling applications in the oil and natural gas industry where an accident or a failure of a product can potentially have catastrophic consequences. Risks inherent to these applications, such as equipment malfunctions; failures; explosions; blowouts or uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids; and natural disasters on land or in deepwater or shallow water environments, can cause personal injury; loss of life; suspension of operations; damage to formations; damage to facilities; business interruption and damage to or destruction of property, surface water and drinking water resources, equipment and the environment. These risks can be caused or contributed to by failure of, defects in or misuse of our products. In addition, we provide certain services that could cause, contribute to or be implicated in these events. If our products or services fail to meet specifications or are involved in accidents or failures, we could face warranty, contract or other litigation claims, which could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, loss of oil and natural gas production, and pollution or other environmental damages. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to cover all liabilities. Further, insurance may not be generally available in the future or, if available, insurance premiums may make such insurance commercially unjustifiable. Moreover, even if we are successful in defending a claim, it could be time consuming and costly to defend. In addition, the frequency and severity of such incidents could affect operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. In particular, our customers may elect not to purchase our products or services if they view our safety record as unacceptable, which could cause us to lose customers and revenues. In addition, these risks may be greater for us because we may acquire companies that have not allocated significant resources and management focus to quality or safety, requiring rehabilitative efforts during the integration process. We may incur liabilities for losses associated with these newly acquired companies before we are able to rehabilitate such companies quality, safety and environmental programs. We may not be able to satisfy technical requirements, testing requirements, code requirements or other specifications under contracts and contract tenders. Many of our products are used in harsh environments and severe service applications. Our contracts with customers and customer requests for bids often set forth detailed specifications or technical requirements (including that they meet certain industrial code requirements, such as API, ASME or similar codes, or that our processes and facilities maintain ISO or similar certifications) for our products and services, which may also include extensive testing requirements. We anticipate that such code testing requirements will become more common in our contracts. We cannot assure you that our products or facilities will be able to satisfy the specifications or requirements, or that we will be able to perform the full scale testing necessary to prove that the product specifications are satisfied in future contract bids or under existing contracts, or that the costs of modifications to our products or facilities to satisfy the specifications and testing will not adversely affect our results of operations. If our products or facilities are unable to satisfy such requirements, or we are unable to perform or satisfy any required full scale testing, we may suffer reputational harm and our customers may cancel their contracts and or seek new suppliers, and our business, results of operations or financial position may be adversely affected. We may be unable to employ a sufficient number of skilled and qualified workers. The delivery of our products and services requires personnel with specialized skills and experience. Our ability to be productive and profitable depends upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. During periods of low activity in our industry, we have reduced the size of our labor force to match declining revenue levels, and other employees may choose to leave in order to find more stable employment. This may cause us to lose skilled personnel, the absence 24 Table of Contents of which could cause us to incur quality, efficiency and deliverability issues in our operations, or delay our response to an upturn in the market. During periods of increasing activity in our industry, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. In addition, during those periods, the demand for skilled workers is high, the supply is limited and the cost to attract and retain qualified personnel increases, especially for skilled workers. For example, we have in the past experienced shortages of engineers, mechanical assemblers, machinists and welders, which in some instances slowed the productivity of certain of our operations. Furthermore, a significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If any of these events were to occur, our ability to respond quickly to customer demands may be inhibited and our growth potential could be impaired. Our inability to control the inherent risks of acquiring and integrating businesses could disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our operating results going forward. We continuously evaluate acquisitions and may elect to acquire businesses or assets in the future. For example, in 2018, we acquired certain assets of ESP Completion Technologies LLC ("ESPCT"), and 100% of the stock of Houston Global Heat Transfer LLC ( GHT ). These activities may distract management from day to day tasks. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including unanticipated costs and exposure to unforeseen liabilities; difficulty in integrating the operations and assets of the acquired businesses; potential inability to retain key employees and customers of the acquired company; potential inability to properly establish and maintain effective internal controls over an acquired company; risk of entering markets in which we have limited prior experience; and failure to realize the full range of synergies that were expected when assessing the value to be paid for the acquisition. Achieving the anticipated or desired benefits of our past or future acquisitions will depend, in part, upon whether the integration of the various businesses, products, services, technology and employees is accomplished in an efficient and effective manner. There can be no assurance that we will obtain these anticipated or desired benefits of our past or future acquisitions, and if we fail to manage these risks successfully, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may incur liabilities arising from events prior to the acquisition or prior to our establishment of adequate anti corruption, trade or other compliance oversight. While we generally seek to obtain indemnities or insurance for liabilities for events occurring before such acquisitions, these are limited in amount and duration, may be held to be unenforceable, the seller may not be able to indemnify us or the insurer may deny payment. We may also incur indebtedness or issue additional equity securities to finance future acquisitions. Debt service requirements could represent a burden on our results of operations and financial condition, and the issuance of additional equity securities could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Our financial results could be adversely impacted by changes in regulation of oil and natural gas exploration and development activity in response to significant environmental incidents. The U.S. Department of the Interior implemented additional safety and certification requirements applicable to drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, imposed additional requirements with respect to exploration, development and production activities in U.S. waters and imposed a moratorium that delayed the approval of drilling plans and well permits in both deepwater and shallow water areas due to the Macondo well incident. Although neither we nor our products were involved in the incident, the delays caused by the new regulations and requirements had an overall negative effect on drilling activity in U.S. waters, and to a certain extent, our financial results. Another similar environmental incident could result in similar drilling moratoria, and could result in increased federal, state, and international regulation of our and our customers operations that could negatively impact our earnings, prospects and the availability and cost of insurance coverage. Any additional regulation of the exploration and production industry as a whole could result in fewer companies being financially qualified to operate offshore or onshore in the U.S. or in non U.S. jurisdictions, resulting in higher operating costs for our customers and reduced demand for our products and services. 25 Table of Contents Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our operating costs or reduce demand for our products. Environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the U.S. and other countries have focused considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. In response to scientific studies suggesting that emissions of GHGs, including carbon dioxide and methane, are contributing to the warming of the Earth atmosphere and other climatic conditions, the U.S. Congress has considered adopting comprehensive legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through measures to promote the use of renewable energy and or regional GHG cap and trade programs. The Environmental Protection Agency (the EPA ) has already begun to regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the federal Clean Air Act. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and certain other GHGs endanger public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. Accordingly, the EPA has begun adopting rules under the Clean Air Act that, among other things, cover reductions in GHG emissions from motor vehicles, permits for certain large stationary sources of GHGs, and monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from specified GHG emission sources, including oil and natural gas exploration and production operations. Additionally, in May 2016, the EPA issued final new source performance standards governing methane emissions that impose more stringent controls on methane and volatile organic compounds emissions at new and modified oil and natural gas production, processing, storage and transmission facilities. The EPA announced its intention to reconsider those standards in April 2017 and has sought to stay those requirements. However, the EPA stay of these requirements was vacated by the D.C. Circuit in July 2017. Accordingly, they remain in effect. More recently, the EPA finalized amendments to some requirements in these standards in March 2018 and proposed additional amendments to these standards in October 2018, including rescission of certain requirements and revisions to other requirements such as fugitive emissions monitoring frequency. The EPA also announced that it intends to impose methane emission standards for existing sources and issued information collection requests to companies with production, gathering and boosting, natural gas processing, storage and transmission facilities in December 2016. The EPA withdrew those information collection requests in March 2017. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the U.S., including oil and natural gas systems. Similarly, the Department of the Interior Bureau of Land Management ( BLM ) issued final rules in November 2016 relating to the venting, flaring and leaking of natural gas by oil and natural gas producers who operate on federal and Indian lands. Certain provisions of the BLM rule went into effect in January 2017, while others were scheduled to go into effect in January 2018. In December 2017, BLM published a final rule delaying the 2018 provisions until 2019. BLM proposed a rule in February 2018 that would revise the 2016 rule and rescind some of its requirements. Several states filed judicial challenges to the BLM proposed rescission. In April 2018, a federal court stayed the litigation pending finalization or withdrawal of the BLM February 2018 proposal. In September 2018, the BLM published a final rule that largely adopted the February 2018 proposal and rescinded several requirements. The September 2018 rule was challenged in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California almost immediately after issuance. The challenge is still pending . Finally, efforts have also been made and continue to be made in the international community toward the adoption of international treaties or protocols that would address global climate change issues. In 2015, the U.S. participated in the United Nations Conference on Climate Change, which led to the creation of the Paris Agreement, which requires member countries to review and represent a progression in their nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals every five years. In June 2017, President Trump announced that the U.S. will withdraw from the Paris Agreement unless it is renegotiated. The State Department informed the United Nations of the U.S. withdrawal in August 2017; however, under the terms of the Paris Agreement the U.S. will not be able to withdraw until 2020 . The adoption of additional legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating costs to comply with new emissions reduction or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, hydrocarbons that certain of our customers produce and reduce revenues by other of our customers who provide services to those exploration and production customers. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. 26 Table of Contents Adverse weather conditions adversely affect demand for services and operations. Adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, ice or snow may damage or destroy our facilities, interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers operations, cause supply disruptions and result in a loss of revenue, which may or may not be insured. For example, certain of our facilities located in Oklahoma and Pennsylvania have experienced suspensions in operations due to tornado activity or extreme cold weather conditions. A natural disaster, catastrophe or other event could result in severe property damage, which could curtail our operations. Some of our operations involve risks of, among other things, property damage, which could curtail our operations. Disruptions in operations or damage to a manufacturing plant could reduce our ability to produce products and satisfy customer demand. In particular, we have offices and manufacturing facilities in Houston, Texas, and in various places throughout the U.S. Gulf Coast region. These offices and facilities are particularly susceptible to severe tropical storms and hurricanes, which may disrupt our operations. Damage to 1 or more of our manufacturing facilities by severe weather or any other disaster, accident, catastrophe or event, could significantly interrupt our operations. Similar interruptions could result from damage to production or other facilities that provide supplies or other raw materials to our plants or other stoppages arising from factors beyond our control. These interruptions might involve significant damage to property, among other things, and repairs might take a significant amount of time. For example, in the third quarter 2017, we were impacted by idled facilities and operations directly related to Hurricane Harvey widespread damage in Texas and Louisiana. As a result, our financial results were negatively impacted by foreg1 revenue and under absorption of manufacturing costs, and, indirectly, due to supplier and logistical delays. Provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The existence of some provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include a classified board of directors, so that only approximately 1 third of our directors are elected each year; authority of our board to fill vacancies and determine its size; the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; limitations on the removal of directors; and limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings. In addition, our amended and restated bylaws establish advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders. Furthermore, if SCF ownership is reduced to less than 15%, certain restrictions under Delaware law on business combinations with greater than 15% stockholders will begin to apply to us. L.E. Simmons & Associates, Incorporated ( LESA ), through SCF Partners ( SCF ), may significantly influence the outcome of stockholder voting and may exercise this voting power in a manner adverse to our other stockholders. As of February 22, 2019 , SCF held approximately 20.5 million shares of our common stock, equal to approximately 19% of the outstanding common stock at that date. LESA is the ultimate general partner of SCF and will exert significant influence over us, including over the outcome of most matters requiring a stockholder vote, such as the election of directors, adoption of amendments to our charter and bylaws and approval of transactions involving a change of control. LESA interests may differ from our other stockholders, and SCF may vote its common stock in a manner that may adversely affect those stockholders. SCF is a party to a registration rights agreement with us, which requires us to effect the registration of its shares in certain circumstances. SCF exercised such rights in November 2013, May 2014, December 2016 and October 2017 with respect to 6.0 million, 115 million, 37 million and 20.5 million shares, respectively. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by SCF, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. 27 Table of Contents Certain of our directors may have conflicts of interest because they are also directors or officers of SCF. The resolution of these conflicts of interest may not be in the best interests of our Company or our other stockholders. Certain of our directors, namely David C. Baldwin and Andrew L. Waite, are currently officers of LESA. In addition, our CEO, directly and through a trust for his children who are primary beneficiaries, holds an ownership interest in various SCF funds. These positions may create conflicts of interest because of the ownership interest these directors and Mr. Gaut maintain. Duties as directors or officers of LESA may conflict with such individuals duties as 1 of our directors or officers regarding business dealings and other matters between SCF and us. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in the best interest of our Company or our other stockholders. Please read We have renounced any interest in specified business opportunities, and SCF and its director nominees on our board of directors generally have no obligation to offer us those opportunities. We have renounced any interest in specified business opportunities, and SCF and its director nominees on our board of directors generally have no obligation to offer us those opportunities. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, so long as we have a director or officer who is affiliated with SCF (an SCF Nominee ) and for a continuous period of 1 year thereafter, we renounce any interest or expectancy in any business opportunity in which any member of the SCF group participates or desires or seeks to participate in and that involves any aspect of the energy equipment or services business or industry, other than (i) any business opportunity that is brought to the attention of an SCF Nominee solely in such person capacity as a director or officer of our Company and with respect to which no other member of the SCF group independently receives notice or otherwise identifies such opportunity and (ii) any business opportunity that is identified by the SCF group solely through the disclosure of information by or on behalf of our Company. We refer to SCF and its other affiliates and its portfolio companies as the SCF group. We are not prohibited from pursuing any business opportunity with respect to which we have renounced any interest. SCF has investments in other oilfield service companies that may compete with us, and SCF and its affiliates, other than our Company, may invest in other such companies in the future. LESA, the ultimate general partner of SCF, has an internal policy that discourages it from investing in 2 or more portfolio companies with substantially overlapping industry segments and geographic areas. However, LESA internal policy does not restrict the management or operation of its other individual portfolio companies from competing with us. Pursuant to LESA policy, LESA may allocate any potential opportunities to the existing portfolio company where LESA determines, in its discretion, such opportunities are the most logical strategic and operational fit. As a result, LESA or its affiliates may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and may direct such opportunities to its other portfolio companies, in which case we may not become aware of or otherwise have the ability to pursue such opportunities. Furthermore, LESA does not have a specific policy with regard to allocation of financial professionals and they are under no obligation to provide us with financial professionals. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments N1 28 Table of Contents Item 2 Properties 
