CIK: 1403853
Company Name: NUVERRA ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-03-12
Accession Number: 0001403853-19-000010


Item 1 Business When used in this Annual Report, the terms Nuverra, the Company, we, our, and us refer to Nuverra Environmental Solutions, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise specified. Overview Nuverra is a leading provider of water logistics and oilfield services to customers focused on the development and ongoing production of oil and natural gas from shale formations in the United States. Our services include the delivery, collection, and disposal of solid and liquid materials that are used in and generated by the drilling, completion, and ongoing production of shale oil and natural gas. We utilize a broad array of assets to meet our customers logistics and environmental management needs. Our logistics assets include trucks and trailers, temporary and permanent pipelines, temporary and permanent storage facilities, ancillary rental equipment, and liquid and solid waste disposal sites. We provide a suite of solutions to customers who demand safety, environmental compliance and accountability from their service providers. Headquartered in Scottsdale, Arizona, Nuverra Environmental Solutions, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware on May 29, 2007 as Heckmann Corporation. On May 16, 2013, we changed our name to Nuverra Environmental Solutions, Inc. Our service offering focuses on providing comprehensive environmental and logistics management solutions within 3 primary groups Water Transfer Services Collection and transportation of flowback and produced water from drilling and completion activities to disposal ne2rks via trucking or a fixed pipeline system, and delivery of freshwater for drilling and completion activities via trucking, lay flat temporary line or fixed pipeline system. Disposal Services Disposal of liquid waste water from hydraulic fracturing operations, liquid waste water from well production, and solid drilling waste in our disposal wells and landfill. Logistics and Wellsite Services Rental of wellsite equipment and provision of other wellsite services including preparation and remediation. Business Strategy Nuverra strives to be a leader in the oilfield services sector by providing value to our customers through an integrated service offering of water management solutions. Our strategy is focused on (1) reinvesting in our core business in order to drive organic growth and provide a stable revenue stream, (2) maximizing our attractive asset base to capitalize on favorable industry trends, and (3) continuing to develop leading service offerings as the water management industry continues to evolve. Our produced water hauling and disposal business provides a reliable revenue stream, as produced water is generated with or without drilling rig activity. While prices fluctuate throughout each industry cycle, produced water volumes typically increase or remain relatively stable. Spears & Associates, an industry market share research firm, estimates in their October 2018 report entitled, The US Oilfield Water Management Services Market (the Report ) that produced water volumes for disposal will increase anywhere between 4% to 5% annually for the years 2019 through 2023 Our ne2rk of assets are strategically located in the Rocky Mountain, Northeast and Southern regions. We have built a strong reputation in the industry as a result of providing our customers with excellent service quality over many years. Within the oilfield service sector, there are several key buying factors that determine the value we provide to our customers, such as commitment to health, safety and environment; service quality including regulatory compliance; price; capacity and proximity; and technology. We continue to evolve our service offerings to address the critical value drivers while adapting to the changing water management industry. The current trend of integrated gathering and disposal systems is driving increased use of water pipelines. Our saltwater disposal wells (or SWDs ) and pipeline are an integral part of our produced water business. SWDs provide core assets that we can leverage to provide incremental offerings on existing disposal and water midstream projects. We are also evaluating additional service line growth opportunities. As we continue to refine our portfolio and footprint, we may consider opportunistic asset sales to provide additional capital to fund our growth investments. 5 Market Overview Nuverra operates in the large and fragmented market for water management. Spears & Associates estimates in their Report that the 2019 market size in the United States (or U.S. ) for oilfield water management will be approximately $25.6 billion. The primary services in Spears & Associates market estimate include water hauling, water disposal, water treatment, water storage, water acquisition, water flowback, and water transfer services. Nuverra provides the majority of these services, but does not have a presence in all U.S. geographic markets. Therefore, management believes there is significant opportunity for market share gains as the Company expands its resources. Spears & Associates projects in their Report that the U.S. oilfield water hauling market will be approximately $8.0 billion in 2019 and is projected to reach $10.0 billion in 2023 for a compounded annual growth rate of 6% over the 2018 to 2023 timeframe. Nuverra is well positi1d to benefit from the favorable trends in the broader oilfield services industry, such as hydraulic fracturing activity, well counts and footage drilled. According to World Oil Forecast and Data 2019 Executive Summary Report, U.S. drilling in 2019 will increase 4.0% over 2018 to 28,065 wells, and footage drilled in 2019 will increase 5.0% over 2018 to 341 million feet of hole. There is opportunity for Nuverra to capitalize on these positive industry trends, specifically in our landfill, wellsite rentals, and water transfer services. These services deliver higher margins and provide us with the ability to enhance our profits during industry expansion cycles. From a geographic perspective, Nuverra remains focused on being the premier service provider in our core areas of the Bakken, Marcellus, Utica, and Haynesville basins. We continue to evaluate growth opportunities in other areas. However, we do not plan to enter a market unless we believe we can generate attractive profitability and returns on invested capital. While some basins offer significant levels of activity, attractive economics for certain service providers are not assured given the amount of competition in those basins. Advances in drilling technology and the development of unconventional North American hydrocarbon plays allow previously inaccessible or non economical formations in the earth crust to be accessed by utilizing high pressure methods from water injection (or the process known as hydraulic fracturing) combined with proppant fluids (containing sand grains or ceramic beads) to create new perforation depths and fissures to extract natural gas, oil, and other hydrocarbon resources. Significant amounts of water are required for hydraulic fracturing operations, and subsequently, complex water flows, in the forms of flowback and produced water, represent a waste stream generated by these methods of hydrocarbon exploration and production. In addition to the liquid product stream involved in the hydraulic fracturing process, there are also significant environmental solid waste streams that are generated during the drilling and completion of a well. During the drilling process, a combination of the cut rock, or cuttings, mixed with the liquid used to drill the well, is returned to the surface and must be handled in accordance with environmental and other regulations. Historically, much of this solid waste byproduct was buried at the well site. We believe customers will increasingly focus on the offsite disposal or recycling of the solid waste byproduct. Produced water volumes, which represent water from the formation produced alongside hydrocarbons over the life of the well, are generally driven by geological considerations, combined with marginal costs of production and frequently create a multi year demand for our services once the well has been drilled and completed. In general, drilling and completion activities in the oil and natural gas industry are affected by the market prices (or anticipated prices) for those commodities. However, there is no guarantee that oil and natural gas prices will remain stable or increase, drilling and completion activities in basins will continue to increase, or we will see a continuing increase in a demand for our services. Oil and natural gas prices remain volatile, with oil prices dropping more than 40% during the fourth quarter of 2018. Another prolonged downturn in oil and natural gas prices could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future. Operations Our business consists of operations in shale basins where customers exploration and production ( E&P ) activities are predominantly focused on shale oil and natural gas as follows Oil shale areas includes our operations in the Bakken shale area. (Our exit of the Eagle Ford shale area started March 1, 2018, and was substantially complete by June 30, 2018. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements herein for further information on our exit of the Eagle Ford shale area.) For 2018 , 66% of our revenues from continuing operations were derived from the oil shale areas. Natural gas shale areas includes our operations in the Marcellus, Utica, and Haynesville shale areas. During 2018 , 34% of our revenues from continuing operations were derived from natural gas shale areas. 6 Our business operations are comprised of 3 geographically distinct divisions, which are further described in Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements herein Rocky Mountain Division comprising the Bakken shale area; Northeast Division comprising the Marcellus and Utica shale areas; and Southern Division comprising the Haynesville shale area and Eagle Ford shale area (which we exited during the six months ended June 30, 2018). The shale areas in which we currently operate and that comprise our operating divisions are described below. The technically recoverable resources for the shale areas noted below were obtained from the Assumptions to the Annual Energy Outlook 2019 report issued in January of 2019 by the United States Energy Information Administration with data as of January 1, 2017 (the EIA 2019 Report ). The EIA 2019 Report notes that estimates of technically recoverable resources are highly uncertain, with early estimates tending to vary and shift significantly over time as new geological information is gained through drilling, or as long term productivity is clarified or improved through technology and better management practices. The Bakken and underlying 3 Forks formations are the 2 primary reservoirs currently being developed in the Williston Basin, which covers most of western North Dakota, eastern Montana, northwest South Dakota and southern Saskatchewan. According to the EIA 2019 Report, the Bakken and 3 Forks shale formations contain an estimated 16.0 billion barrels of technically recoverable oil reserves. The Marcellus shale area is located in the Appalachian Basin in the Northeastern United States, primarily in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, New York and Ohio. The Marcellus shale area is the largest natural gas field in North America with approximately 2625 trillion cubic feet (or Tcf ) of technically recoverable natural gas, according to the EIA 2019 Report. Adjacent to the Marcellus shale area is the Utica shale area, located primarily in southwestern Pennsylvania and eastern Ohio. Still in the early stages of development, the Utica shale area has 3 identified areas oil, condensate and dry natural gas. According to the EIA 2019 Report, the Utica shale area is estimated to have approximately 1939 Tcf of technically recoverable natural gas and 16 billion barrels of technically recoverable oil reserves. The Haynesville shale area is located across northwest Louisiana and east Texas, and extends into Arkansas. The Haynesville shale area is the third largest natural gas producing basin in North America, with an estimated 1222 Tcf of technically recoverable natural gas according to the EIA 2019 Report. As part of our environmental and logistics management solutions for water and water related services, we serve E&P customers seeking fresh water acquisition, temporary or permanent water transmission and storage, transportation, or disposal of fresh flowback and produced water in connection with shale oil and natural gas hydraulic fracturing operations. We also provide services for water pit excavations, well site preparation and well site remediation. We own an approximately 60 mile underground twin pipeline ne2rk in the Haynesville shale for the collection of produced water and the delivery of fresh water. The pipeline ne2rk can handle volumes up to approximately 60 thousand barrels per day and is scalable up to approximately 100 thousand barrels per day. We have a fleet of approximately 525 heavy duty trucks including 55 specialty trucks and 470 water trucks used for delivery and collection, and over 2,225 storage tanks. We also own or lease 48 operating saltwater disposal wells in the Bakken, Marcellus Utica, and Haynesville shale areas. Within our environmental and logistics management solutions for solid materials, we provide collection, transportation, and disposal options for solid waste generated by drilling and completion activities, including an oilfield solids disposal landfill that we own and operate in the Bakken shale area. The landfill is located on a 50 acre site with current permitted capacity of more than 17 million cubic yards of airspace. We believe that permitted capacity at this site could be expanded up to a total of 5.8 million cubic yards in the future. A significant part of the Company service offering involves trucking operations. Nuverra fleet of more than 520 trucks positions the Company among the top 25 in the Petroleum & Chemical sector according to Transport Topics 2018 Top 100 Private Carriers. The Company is experiencing the same driver shortage challenge that most U.S. trucking companies are facing. As a result of these challenges, Nuverra has successfully implemented trucking price increases and implemented a number of initiatives to increase truck driver recruitment and retention. These initiatives started to show results in the second half of 2018 with driver count increasing approximately 7.0%. 7 Our fleet utilizes GPS and other automation tools that we expect to upgrade as technology progresses. Our service has long included electronic logging devices (ELDs). As a result, the new regulations from the U.S. Department of Transportation that include the requirement for electronic logs (rather than paper logs that can be adjusted) that became effective in December of 2017 did not impact our business. We believe that this new regulation has been positive for Nuverra as it has caused many of our less sophisticated competitors to bear higher compliance costs in 2018 that are more equivalent to the compliance costs that Nuverra has been incurring for some time. Customers Our customers include major domestic and international oil and natural gas companies, foreign national oil and natural gas companies and independent oil and natural gas production companies. For the year ended December 31, 2018 , our 3 largest customers were Hess Corporation, Southwestern Energy and Oasis Petroleum which represented 11%, 10% and 8%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues. The loss of any 1 of these 3 customers could have a material adverse affect on the Company. Competition Our competition includes small regional service providers, as well as larger companies with operations throughout the continental United States and internationally. Some of our competitors are Select Energy Services, Inc., Key Energy Services, Inc., Basic Energy Services, Inc., C&J Energy Services, Inc., Superior Energy Services, Inc., Clean Harbors, Inc., TETRA Technologies, Inc., MBI Energy Services, Inc., Stallion Oilfield Services, LLC, Waste Connections, Inc., Pinnergy, Ltd., McKenzie Energy Partners, LLC, and Buckhorn Energy Services, LLC. Health, Safety & Environment We are committed to excellence in health, safety and environment ( HS&E ) in our operations, which we believe is a critical characteristic of our business. Our customers in the unconventional shale basins require us to meet high standards on HS&E matters. As a result, we believe that being a leading environmental solutions company with a national presence and a dedicated focus on environmental solutions is a competitive advantage relative to smaller, regional companies, as well as companies that provide certain environmental services as ancillary offerings. Seasonality Certain of our business divisions are impacted by seasonal factors. Generally, our business is negatively impacted during the winter months due to inclement weather, fewer daylight hours and holidays. During periods of heavy snow, ice or rain, we may be unable to move our trucks and equipment between locations, thereby reducing our ability to provide services and generate revenue. In addition, these conditions may impact our customers operations, and, as our customers drilling and or hydraulic fracturing activities are curtailed, our services may also be reduced. Intellectual Property We operate under numerous trade names and own several trademarks, the most important of which are Nuverra, HWR, Power Fuels, and Heckmann Water Resources. Operating Risks Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in our industry, including accidents and fires that could cause personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment and the environment, suspension of operations and litigation, as described in Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements herein, associated with these hazards. Because our business involves the transportation of environmentally regulated materials, we may also experience traffic accidents or pipeline breaks that may result in spills, property damage and personal injury. We have implemented a comprehensive HS&E program designed to minimize accidents in the workplace, enhance our safety programs, maintain environmental compliance and improve the efficiency of our operations. Governmental Regulation, Including Environmental Regulation and Climate Change Our operations are subject to stringent United States federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to health and safety or the protection of the environment. Additional laws and regulations, or changes in the interpretations of existing laws and regulations, that affect our business and operations may be adopted, which may in turn impact our financial condition. The following is a summary of the more significant existing health, safety and environmental laws and regulations to which our operations are subject. 8 Hazardous Substances and Waste The United States Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended, referred to as CERCLA or the Superfund law, and comparable state laws impose liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on certain defined persons, including current and prior owners or operators of a site where a release of hazardous substances occurred and entities that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances found at the site. Under CERCLA, these responsible persons may be liable for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In the course of our operations, we occasionally generate materials that are considered hazardous substances and, as a result, may incur CERCLA liability for cleanup costs. Also, claims may be filed for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other pollutants. We also generate solid wastes that are subject to the requirements of the United States Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, or RCRA, and comparable state statutes. Although we use operating and disposal practices that are standard in the industry, hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been released at properties owned or leased by us now or in the past, or at other locations where these hydrocarbons and wastes were taken for disposal. Under CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws, we could be required to clean up contaminated property (including contaminated groundwater), or to perform remedial activities to prevent future contamination. Air Emissions The Clean Air Act, as amended, or CAA, and similar state laws and regulations restrict the emission of air pollutants and also impose various monitoring and reporting requirements. These laws and regulations may require us to obtain approvals or permits for construction, modification or operation of certain projects or facilities and may require use of emission controls. Global Warming and Climate Change While we do not believe our operations raise climate change issues different from those generally raised by the commercial use of fossil fuels, legislation or regulatory programs that restrict greenhouse gas emissions in areas where we conduct business or that would require reducing emissions from our truck fleet could increase our costs. From another perspective, a carbon constrained environment would likely reward hydrocarbons produced from low cost areas. Water Discharges We operate facilities that are subject to requirements of the United States Clean Water Act, as amended, or CWA, and analogous state laws for regulating discharges of pollutants into the waters of the United States and regulating quality standards for surface waters. Among other things, these laws impose restrictions and controls on the discharge of pollutants, including into navigable waters as well as the protection of drinking water sources. Spill prevention, control and counter measure requirements under the CWA require implementation of measures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters in the event of a hydrocarbon spill. Other requirements for the prevention of spills are established under the United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as amended, or OPA , which amended the CWA and applies to owners and operators of vessels, including barges, offshore platforms and certain onshore facilities. Under OPA, regulated parties are strictly liable for oil spills and must establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility sufficient to cover liabilities related to an oil spill for which such parties could be statutorily responsible. State Environmental Regulations Our operations involve the storage, handling, transport and disposal of bulk waste materials, some of which contain oil, contaminants and other regulated substances. Various environmental laws and regulations require prevention, and where necessary, cleanup of spills and leaks of such materials and some of our operations must obtain permits that limit the discharge of materials. Failure to comply with such environmental requirements or permits may result in fines and penalties, remediation orders and revocation of permits. In Texas, we are subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the Texas Railroad Commission and the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, including those designed to protect the environment and monitor compliance with water quality. In Louisiana, we are subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality and the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources as to environmental and water quality issues, and the Louisiana Public Service Commission as to allocation of intrastate routes and territories for waste water transportation. In Pennsylvania, we are subject to the rules and regulations of the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and the Pennsylvania Public Service Commission. In Ohio, we are subject to the rules and regulations of the Ohio Department of Natural Resources and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency. In North Dakota, we are subject to the rules and regulations of the North Dakota Department of Health, the North Dakota Industrial Commission, Oil and Gas Division, and 9 the North Dakota State Water Commission. In Montana, we are subject to the rules and regulations of the Montana Department of Environmental Quality and the Montana Board of Oil and Gas. Occupational Safety and Health Act We are subject to the requirements of the United States Occupational Safety and Health Act, as amended, or OSHA, and comparable state laws that regulate the protection of employee health and safety. OSHA hazard communication standard requires that information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations be maintained and provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. Saltwater Disposal Wells We operate saltwater disposal wells that are subject to the CWA, the Safe Drinking Water Act, or SDWA, and state and local laws and regulations, including those established by the Underground Injection Control Program of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, which establishes minimum requirements for permitting, testing, monitoring, record keeping and reporting of injection well activities. Our saltwater disposal wells are located in Louisiana, Montana, North Dakota, Ohio and Texas. Regulations in many states require us to obtain a permit to operate each of our saltwater disposal wells in those states. These regulatory agencies have the general authority to suspend or modify 1 or more of these permits if continued operation of 1 of our saltwater wells is likely to result in pollution of freshwater, tremors or earthquakes, substantial violation of permit conditions or applicable rules, or leaks to the environment. Any leakage from the subsurface portions of the saltwater wells could cause degradation of fresh groundwater resources, potentially resulting in cancellation of operations of a well, issuance of fines and penalties from governmental agencies, incurrence of expenditures for remediation of the affected resource and claims by third parties for property damages and personal injuries. Transportation Regulations We conduct interstate motor carrier (trucking) operations that are subject to federal regulation by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, or FMCSA, a unit within the United States Department of Transportation, or USDOT. The FMCSA publishes and enforces comprehensive trucking safety regulations, including rules on commercial driver licensing, controlled substance testing, medical and other qualifications for drivers, equipment maintenance, and drivers hours of service, referred to as HOS. The agency also performs certain functions relating to such matters as motor carrier registration (licensing), insurance, and extension of credit to motor carriers customers. Another unit within USDOT publishes and enforces regulations regarding the transportation of hazardous materials, or hazmat. The waste water and other water flows we transport by truck are generally not regulated as hazmat at this time. Our intrastate trucking operations are also subject to various states environmental and waste water transportation regulations discussed under Environmental Regulations above. Federal law also allows states to impose insurance and safety requirements on motor carriers conducting intrastate business within their borders, and to collect a variety of taxes and fees on an apporti1d basis reflecting miles actually operated within each state. HOS regulations establish the maximum number of hours that a commercial truck driver may work and are intended to reduce the risk of fatigue and fatigue related crashes and harm to driver health. Due to the specialized nature of our operations in the oil and gas industry, we qualify for an exception in the federal HOS rules (i.e., the Oilfield Exemption ). Drivers of most property carrying commercial motor vehicles have to take at least 34 hours off duty in order to reset their accumulated hours under the 60 70 hour rule, but drivers of property carrying commercial motor vehicles that are used exclusively to support oil and gas activities can restart with just 24 hours off under the Oilfield Exemption. However, there are other HOS regulations that affect our operations, including the 11 Hour Driving Limit, 14 Hour On Duty Limit, 30 Minute Rest Break, 60 70 Hour Limit On Duty in 7 8 consecutive days. Compliance with these rules directly impacts our operating costs. Employees As of December 31, 2018 , we had 715 full time employees, of whom 144 were executive, managerial, sales, general, administrative, and accounting staff, and 571 were truck drivers, service providers and field workers. We have not experienced, and do not expect, any work stoppages, and believe that we maintain a satisfactory working relationship with our employees. Emergence from Chapter 11 Reorganization On May 1, 2017, the Company and certain of its material subsidiaries (collectively with the Company, the Nuverra Parties ) filed voluntary petitions under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the Bankruptcy Code ) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the Bankruptcy Court ) to pursue prepackaged plans of reorganization (together, and as amended, the Plan ). On July 25, 2017, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order (the Confirmation Order ) 10 confirming the Plan. The Plan became effective on August 7, 2017 (the Effective Date ), when all remaining conditions to the effectiveness of the Plan were satisfied or waived. On June 22, 2018, the Bankruptcy Court issued a final decree and order closing the chapter 11 cases, subject to certain conditions as set forth therein. See Note 4 on Emergence from Chapter 11 Reorganization of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements herein for additional details. Upon emergence, we elected to apply fresh start accounting effective July 31, 2017, to coincide with the timing of our normal accounting period close. Refer to Note 5 on Fresh Start Accounting of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements herein for additional information on the selection of this date. As a result of the application of fresh start accounting, as well as the effects of the implementation of the Plan, a new entity for financial reporting purposes was created, and as such, the condensed consolidated financial statements on or after August 1, 2017, are not comparable with the condensed consolidated financial statements prior to that date. References to Successor or Successor Company refer to the financial position and results of operations of the reorganized Company subsequent to July 31, 2017. References to Predecessor or Predecessor Company refer to the financial position and results of operations of the Company on and prior to July 31, 2017. Available Information Information that we file with or furnish to the SEC, including our Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, and any amendments to or exhibits included in these reports, are available free of charge on our website at www.nuverra.com soon after such reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. From time to time, we also post announcements, updates, events, investor information and presentations on our website in addition to copies of all recent press releases. Our reports, including any exhibits included in such reports, that are filed with or furnished to the SEC are also available on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. Neither the contents of our website nor that maintained by the SEC are incorporated into or otherwise a part of this filing. Further, references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Item 1A. Risk Factors This section describes material risks to our businesses that currently are known to us. You should carefully consider the risks described below. If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risks and factors listed below, however, are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K include additional factors that could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing environment. Other known risks that we currently believe to be immaterial could become material in the future. We also are subject to legal and regulatory changes. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Company Our business depends on spending by our customers in the oil and natural gas industry in the United States, and this spending and our business has been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control. Continued and prolonged reductions in oil and natural gas prices and in the overall level of exploration and development may adversely affect demand and pricing for our services. We depend on our customers willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the United States. These expenditures are generally dependent on current oil and natural gas prices and the industry view of future oil and natural gas prices, including the industry view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. A continued and prolonged reduction in the overall level of exploration and development activities, whether resulting from changes in oil and natural gas prices or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect us by negatively impacting utilization, demand for our services and pricing. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including the domestic and worldwide price and supply of gas, natural gas liquids and oil, including the natural gas inventories and oil reserves of the United States; changes in the level of consumer demand; 11 the price and availability of alternative fuels; weather conditions; the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, other transportation facilities and processing facilities; the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including by commodity price speculators and others; the nature and extent of domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; actions of the members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries or OPEC, relating to oil price and production controls; the level of excess production and projected rates of production growth; geo political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions; and overall domestic and global economic and market conditions. The substantial and extended decline in oil and natural gas prices beginning in the second half of 2014 and continuing into 2017 resulted in significant reductions in our customers operating and capital expenditures, which had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The extended decline resulted in diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices customers were willing to pay for services such as ours. This down cycle was followed by an industry recovery that began in 2017 and continued through 2018. As a result of the increases in oil prices, average rig count, completed wells and overall production, we saw an increase in drilling and completion activities primarily in the Rocky Mountain and Northeast divisions in 2018 as compared with 2017. However, there is no guarantee that oil and natural gas prices will remain stable or increase, drilling and completion activities in basins will continue to increase, or we will see a continuing increase in a demand for our services. Oil and natural gas prices remain volatile, with oil prices dropping more than 40% during the fourth quarter of 2018. Another prolonged downturn in oil and natural gas prices could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future. We may not be able to successfully execute our growth initiatives, including through future acquisitions and divestitures, and we may not be able to effectively integrate the businesses we do acquire and identify and manage risks inherent in such acquisitions. Our business strategy includes growth through the acquisitions of other businesses and may include divestitures of non core businesses or assets. As disclosed in our Form 8 K filed with the SEC on October 5, 2018, in October 2018 we acquired Clearwater 3, LLC, Clearwater Five, LLC, and Clearwater Solutions, LLC (collectively, Clearwater ), a leading operator of SWDs in the Marcellus and Utica shale areas, which more than doubled our SWD capacity in the region. We may not, however, be able to continue to identify attractive acquisition opportunities or successfully acquire identified targets. In addition, we may not be successful in integrating our current or future acquisitions into our existing operations, which may result in unforeseen operational difficulties or diminished financial performance or require a disproportionate amount of our management attention. Even if we are successful in integrating our current or future acquisitions into our existing operations, we may not derive the benefits, such as operational or administrative synergies, that we expected from such acquisitions, which may result in the investment of our capital resources without realizing the expected returns on such investment. Furthermore, competition for acquisition opportunities may increase our cost of making further acquisitions or cause us to refrain from making additional acquisitions. We also may be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness under our credit agreements in connection with or to fund future acquisitions. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from an acquisition depends, in part, upon our ability to integrate the operations of the acquired business, the quality and performance of the operating assets of the acquired business, the performance of the underlying product and service portfolio, and the performance of the management team and other personnel of the acquired operations. Accordingly, our financial results could be adversely affected by unanticipated performance issues, legacy liabilities, transaction related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles, charges for impairment of long term assets, indemnifications and other unforeseen events or circumstances. While we believe that we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there is no assurance that these transactions will be successful. 12 We may not recognize the anticipated benefits of completed dispositions or other divestitures we may pursue in the future. We may evaluate potential divestiture opportunities with respect to portions of our business from time to time that support our growth initiatives, and may determine to proceed with a divestiture opportunity if and when we believe such opportunity is consistent with our business strategy and we would be able to realize value to our stockholders in so doing. If we do not realize the expected strategic, economic or other benefits of any divestiture transaction, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Our operating margins and profitability may be negatively impacted by changes in fuel and energy costs. In addition, due to certain fixed costs, our operating margins and earnings may be sensitive to changes in revenues. Our business is dependent on availability of fuel for operating our fleet of trucks. Changes and volatility in the price of crude oil can adversely impact the prices for these products and therefore affect our operating results. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and natural gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and natural gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns, and environmental concerns. Furthermore, our facilities, fleet and personnel subject us to fixed costs, which make our margins and earnings sensitive to changes in revenues. In periods of declining demand, we may be unable to cut costs at a rate sufficient to offset revenue declines, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage to firms with lower or more flexible cost structures, and may result in reduced operating margins and or higher operating losses. These effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Future charges due to possible impairments of assets may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price. As discussed more fully in Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we recorded total impairment charges of $4.8 million and $4.9 million for long lived assets classified as held for sale during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively, which were included in Impairment of long lived assets in the consolidated statements of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded total impairment charges for long lived assets of $422 million . These charges were due to the carrying value of assets for certain basins not being recoverable, as well as for assets that were classified as held for sale during 2016. If there is further deterioration in our business operations or prospects, our stock price, the broader economy or our industry, including further declines in oil and natural gas prices, the value of our long lived assets, or those we may acquire in the future, could decrease significantly and result in additional impairment and financial statement write offs. The testing of long lived assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the composition of our reporting units; changes in economic, industry or market conditions; changes in business operations; changes in competition; or potential changes in the share price of our common stock and market capitalization. Changes in these factors, or differences in our actual performance compared with estimates of our future performance, could affect the fair value of long lived assets, which may result in further impairment charges. We perform the assessment of potential impairment at least annually, or more often if events and circumstances require. Should the value of our long lived assets become impaired, we would incur additional charges which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and could result in us incurring additional net operating losses in future periods. We cannot accurately predict the amount or timing of any impairment of assets. Any future determination requiring the write off of a significant portion of long lived assets, although not requiring any additional cash outlay, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price. Significant capital expenditures are required to conduct our business, and our failure or inability to make sufficient capital investments could significantly harm our business prospects. The development of our business and services, excluding acquisition activities, requires capital expenditures. During the year ended December 31, 2018 , we made gross cash capital expenditures of approximately $122 million , which included the purchase of new water transfer trucks in the Northeast division, new water transfer equipment in the Rocky Mountain division, as well as expenditures to extend the useful life and productivity on our fleet of trucks, tanks, equipment and disposal wells. We continue to focus on finding ways to improve the utilization of our existing assets and optimizing the allocation of resources in the various shale areas in which we operate. Our capital expenditure program is subject to market conditions, including customer activity levels, commodity prices, industry capacity and specific customer needs. In addition to capital expenditures 13 required to maintain our current level of business activity, we may incur capital expenditures to support future growth of our business. We expect capital spending levels in 2019 to increase. Prolonged reductions or delays in capital expenditures could delay or diminish future cash flows and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our planned capital expenditures for 2019 are expected to be financed through cash flow from operations, finance type leases, borrowings under our credit facility and term loan facilities, or a combination of the foregoing. Future cash flows from operations are subject to a number of risks and variables, such as the level of drilling activity and oil and natural gas production of our customers, prices of natural gas and oil, and the other risk factors discussed herein. Our ability to obtain capital from other sources, such as the capital markets, is dependent upon many of those same factors as well as the orderly functioning of credit and capital markets. To the extent we fail to have adequate funds, we could be required to further reduce or defer our capital spending, or pursue other funding alternatives which may not be as economically attractive to us, which in turn could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The compensation we offer our drivers is subject to market conditions, and we may find it necessary to increase driver compensation and or modify the benefits provided to our employees in future periods. Maintaining a staff of qualified truck drivers is critical to the success of our operations. We and other companies in the oil and natural gas industry suffer from a high turnover rate of drivers. The high turnover rate requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of drivers in order to operate existing equipment. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified drivers, we could be forced to, among other things, increase driver compensation and or modify our benefit packages, or operate with fewer trucks and face difficulty meeting customer demands, any of which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Additionally, in anticipation of or in response to geographical and market related fluctuations in the demand for our services, we strategically relocate our equipment and personnel from 1 area to another, which may result in operating inefficiencies, increased labor, fuel and other operating costs and could adversely affect our growth and profitability. As a result, our driver and employee training and orientation costs could be negatively impacted. We also utilize the services of independent contractor truck drivers to supplement our trucking capacity in certain shale areas on an as needed basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into these types of arrangements on favorable terms, or that there will be sufficient qualified independent contractors available to meet our needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on certain key customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of any of these key customers or the loss of any contracted volumes could result in a decline in our business. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. Our 3 largest customers represented 11%, 10% and 8%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 and in total equaled 36% of our consolidated accounts receivable at December 31, 2018 . The loss of all, or even a portion, of the revenues from these customers, as a result of competition, market conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. A reduction in exploration, development and production activities by key customers due to the current declines in oil and natural gas prices, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Customer payment delays of outstanding receivables could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We often provide credit to our customers for our services, and are therefore subject to our customers delaying or failing to pay outstanding invoices. In weak economic environments, customers delays and failures to pay often increase due to, among other reasons, a reduction in our customers cash flow from operations and their access to credit markets. If our customers delay or fail to pay a significant amount of outstanding receivables, it could reduce our availability under our revolving credit facility or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be unable to achieve or maintain pricing to our customers at a level sufficient to cover our costs, which would negatively impact our profitability. We may be unable to charge prices to our customers that are sufficient to cover our costs. Our pricing is subject to highly competitive market conditions, and we may be unable to increase or maintain pricing as market conditions change. Likewise, customers may seek pricing declines more precipitously than our ability to reduce costs. In certain cases, we have entered into fixed price agreements with our customers, which may further limit our ability to raise the prices we charge our customers at a rate sufficient to offset any increases in our costs. Additionally, some customers obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which are beyond our control, 14 including force majeure events. Force majeure events may include (but are not limited to) events such as revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions, mechanical or physical failures of our equipment or facilities of our customers. If the amounts we are able to charge customers are insufficient to cover our costs, or if any customer suspends, terminates or curtails its business relationship with us, the effects could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The litigation environment in which we operate poses a significant risk to our businesses. We are occasionally involved in the ordinary course of business in a number of lawsuits involving employment, commercial, and environmental issues, other claims for injuries and damages, and various shareholder and class action litigation, among other matters. We may experience negative outcomes in such lawsuits in the future. Any such negative outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We evaluate litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from such assessments and estimates. The settlement or resolution of such claims or proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, judges and juries in certain jurisdictions in which we conduct business have demonstrated a willingness to grant large verdicts, including punitive damages, to plaintiffs in personal injury, property damage and other tort cases. We use appropriate means to contest litigation threatened or filed against us, but the litigation environment in these areas poses a significant business risk to us and could cause a significant diversion of management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The hazards and risks associated with the transport, storage, and handling, and disposal of our customers waste (such as fires, spills, explosions and accidents) may expose us to personal injury claims, property damage claims and or products liability claims from our employees, customers or third parties. As protection against such claims and operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. However, we may sustain losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. As more fully described in Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements herein, due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these claims and lawsuits, and we may be held liable for significant personal injury or damage to property or third parties, or other losses, that are not fully covered by our insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We operate in competitive markets, and there can be no certainty that we will maintain our current customers or attract new customers or that our operating margins will not be impacted by competition. The industries in which our business operates are highly competitive. We compete with numerous local and regional companies of varying sizes and financial resources. Competition intensified during the most recent downturn, and could further intensify in the future. Furthermore, numerous well established companies are focusing significant resources on providing similar services to those that we provide that will compete with our services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively compete with these other companies or that competitive pressures, including possible downward pressure on the prices we charge for our products and services, will not arise. In addition, any declines in oil and natural gas prices may result in competitors moving resources from higher cost exploration and production areas to relatively lower cost exploration and production areas where we are located thereby increasing supply and putting further downward pressure on the prices we can charge for our products and services, including our rental business. In the event that we cannot effectively compete on a continuing basis, or competitive pressures arise, such inability to compete or competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Market projections and data are forward looking in nature. Our strategy is based in part on our own market projections and on third party analyst, industry observer, and expert reports and market projections, which are forward looking in nature and are inherently subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. This Annual Report contains forward looking market projections based on studies and reports produced by third party market analysts and experts. The predictions by us or such third party market analysts or experts are subject to numerous factors that could change or emerge in the future, and any market data we rely upon, whether from third parties or otherwise, may be inaccurate or based on flawed assumptions at the time such predictions were made. The inaccuracy of any such market projections and or market data could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, and we urge you to carefully 15 consider the validity and limitations of any such market data or projections we include in this Annual Report and in any of our other filings with the SEC. Any interruption in our services due to pipeline ruptures or spills or necessary maintenance could impair our financial performance and negatively affect our brand. Our water transport pipelines are susceptible to ruptures and spills, particularly during start up and initial operation, and require ongoing inspection and maintenance. We may experience difficulties in maintaining the operation of our pipelines, which may cause downtime and delays. We also may be required to periodically shut down all or part of our pipelines for regulatory compliance and inspection purposes. Any interruption in our services due to pipeline breakdowns or necessary maintenance, inspection or regulatory compliance could reduce revenues and earnings and result in remediation costs. While we have business interruption insurance coverage for our pipeline which would help mitigate lost revenues and remediation costs should a rupture, spill or other shut down occur, there can be no assurances as to how much lost revenue or remediation costs our business interruption insurance would cover, if any. Transportation interruptions at our pipelines, even if only temporary, could severely harm our business and reputation, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, some of which are beyond our control. These risks may not be fully covered under our insurance policies. Our operations are subject to operational hazards, including accidents or equipment failures that can cause pollution and other damage to the environment. Pursuant to applicable law, we may be required to remediate the environmental impact of any such accidents or incidents, which may include costs related to site investigation and soil, groundwater and surface water cleanup. In addition, hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, such as, but not limited to, accidents, blowouts, explosions, pollution and other damage to the environment, fires and hydrocarbon spills, may delay or halt operations at extraction sites which we service. These conditions can cause personal injury or loss of life; liabilities from pipeline breaks and accidents by our fleet of trucks and other equipment; damage to or destruction of property, equipment and the environment; and the suspension of operations. The occurrence of a significant event or a series of events that together are significant, or adverse claims in excess of the insurance coverage that we maintain or that are not covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are being used may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. We maintain insurance coverage that we believe to be customary in the industry against these hazards. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. In addition, insurance may not be available to cover any or all of the risks to which we are subject, or, even if available, the coverage provided by such insurance may be inadequate, or insurance premiums or other costs could make such insurance prohibitively expensive. It is also possible that, when we renew our insurance coverages, our premiums and deductibles will be higher, and certain insurance coverage either will be unavailable or considerably more expensive, than it has been in the past. In addition, our insurance is subject to coverage limits, and some policies exclude coverage for damages resulting from environmental contamination. Improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies or our customers operating methodologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies (such as wind, solar, geothermal, fuel cells and biofuels) that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, technological changes in our customers operating methods could decrease the need for management of water and other wellsite environmental services or otherwise affect demand for our services. Seasonal weather conditions and natural disasters could severely disrupt normal operations and harm our business. Areas in which we operate are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions, primarily in the winter and spring. During periods of heavy snow, ice or rain, our customers may curtail their operations or we may be unable to move our trucks between 16 locations or provide other services, thereby reducing demand for, or our ability to provide services and generate revenues. For example, many municipalities impose weight restrictions on the roads that lead to our customers job sites in the spring due to the muddy conditions caused by spring thaws, limiting our access and our ability to provide service in these areas. In addition, the regions in which we operate have in the past been, and may in the future be, affected by natural disasters such as hurricanes, windstorms, floods and tornadoes. In certain areas, our business may be dependent on our customers ability to access sufficient water supplies to support their hydraulic fracturing operations. To the extent severe drought conditions or other factors prevent our customers from accessing adequate water supplies, our business could be negatively impacted. Future natural disasters or inclement weather conditions could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business, or our customers business, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our financial and operating performance may be affected by the inability to renew landfill operating permits, obtain new landfills and expand existing 1s. We currently own 1 landfill and our ability to meet our financial and operating objectives may depend, in part, on our ability to acquire, lease, or renew landfill operating permits, expand existing landfills and develop new landfill sites. It has become increasingly difficult and expensive to obtain required permits and approvals to build, operate and expand solid waste management facilities, including landfills. Operating permits for landfills in states where we operate must generally be renewed every five to ten years, although some permits are required to be renewed more frequently. These operating permits often must be renewed several times during the permitted life of a landfill. The permit and approval process is often time consuming, requires numerous hearings and compliance with zoning, environmental and other requirements, is frequently challenged by special interest and other groups, and may result in the denial of a permit or renewal, the award of a permit or renewal for a shorter duration than we believed was otherwise required by law, or burdensome terms and conditions being imposed on our operations. We may not be able to obtain new landfill sites or expand the permitted capacity of our landfills when necessary. In addition, we may be unable to make the contingent consideration payment required upon the issuance of a second special waste disposal permit to expand the current landfill. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to use net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and certain built in losses to reduce future tax payments may be limited. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income and to reduce federal and state income tax liabilities is subject to certain requirements, limitations and restrictions, including Internal Revenue Code Section 382 which under certain circumstances may substantially limit our ability to offset future tax liabilities with federal net operating loss carryforwards. Future changes in ownership could eliminate or limit our use of net operating loss carryforwards. Pursuant to United States Internal Revenue Code Section 382, if we undergo an ownership change, the net operating loss carryforward limitations would impose an annual limit on the amount of the taxable income that may be offset by our net operating losses generated prior to the ownership change. We have determined that an ownership change occurred on April 15, 2016 as a result of the debt restructuring that occurred during fiscal 2016. In addition, another ownership change occurred on August 7, 2017 as a result of the chapter 11 reorganization described further in Note 4 . The limitation under Section 382 may result in federal net operating loss carryforwards expiring unused. Subject to the impact of those rules as a result of past or future restructuring transactions, we may be unable to use all or a significant portion of our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income. We are self insured against many potential liabilities, and our reserves may not be sufficient to cover future claims. We maintain high deductible or self insured retention insurance policies for certain exposures including automobile, workers compensation and certain employee group health insurance plans. We carry policies for certain types of claims to provide excess coverage beyond the underlying policies and per incident deductibles or self insured retentions. Because many claims against us do not exceed the deductibles under our insurance policies, we are effectively self insured for a substantial portion of our claims. Our insurance accruals are based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. The insurance accruals are influenced by our past claims experience factors, which have a limited history, and by published industry development factors. The estimates inherent in these accruals are determined using actuarial methods that are widely used and accepted in the insurance industry. If our insurance claims increase or if costs exceed our estimates of insurance liabilities, we could experience a decline in profitability and liquidity, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self insured, then our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. 17 We evaluate our insurance accruals, and the underlying assumptions, regularly throughout the year and make adjustments as needed. While we believe that the recorded amounts are reasonable, there can be no assurance that changes to our estimates will not occur due to limitations inherent in the estimation process. Changes in our assumptions and estimates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our ne2rks. The secure processing, storage, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our ne2rks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers, and damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business, operating margins, revenues and competitive position. These effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A failure in our operational systems, or those of third parties, may adversely affect our business. Our business is dependent upon our operational and technological systems to process a large amount of data. If any of our financial, operational, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our financial results could also be adversely affected if an employee causes our operational systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our operational systems. In addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk that operational system flaws, employee tampering or manipulation of those systems could result in losses that are difficult to detect. We are heavily reliant on technology for communications, financial reporting, treasury management and many other important aspects of our business. Any failure in our operational systems could have a material adverse impact on our business. Third party systems on which we rely could also suffer operational failures. Any of these occurrences could disrupt our business, including the ability to close our financial ledgers and report the results of our operations publicly on a timely basis or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness The amount of our debt and the covenants in the agreements governing our debt could negatively impact our business operations, financial condition, results of operations, and business prospects. Although we reduced the amount of our debt by approximately $500 million as a result of the reorganization in 2017, as of December 31, 2018, we had approximately $66.4 million of total debt. Our level of indebtedness, and the covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt, could have important consequences for our operations, including making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the agreements governing our indebtedness and increasing the risk that we may default on our debt obligations; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes and other activities; limiting management flexibility in operating our business; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; diminishing our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally; 18 placing us at a competitive disadvantage against less leveraged competitors; and making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates, because our debt has variable interest rates. Each of our debt instruments contain certain negative covenants that impose specific restrictions on us. These restrictions include, among others, our ability to incur additional debt; operationally prepay, redeem, or purchase any indebtedness; pay dividends or make other distributions, make other restricted payments and investments; create liens; enter into certain merger, consolidation, reorganization, or recapitalization transactions; merge consolidate, or transfer or dispose of substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates. In addition, there are a number of affirmative covenants with which we must comply. A breach of any of these negative or affirmative covenants could result in a default under our indebtedness. If we default, our lenders will no longer be obligated to extend credit to us, and they could declare all amounts of outstanding debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. The results of such actions would have a significant impact on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. We likely would not have sufficient liquidity to repay all of our outstanding indebtedness. Despite existing debt levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which would increase the risks associated with our indebtedness. Even with our existing debt levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial amounts of additional debt in the future, some or all of which may be secured. As of February 28, 2019 , we had approximately $127 million of borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility. Although the terms of our credit facilities limit our ability to incur additional debt, these terms do not and will not prohibit us from incurring substantial amounts of additional debt for specific purposes or under certain circumstances, some or all of which may be secured. In addition, our lenders may consent to the incurrence of additional debt. As disclosed in our Form 8 K filed with the SEC on October 5, 2018, in October 2018 we incurred additional debt from our existing lenders in conjunction with our acquisition of Clearwater. We may incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify and could further exacerbate the risks associated with our indebtedness. Our ability to meet our obligations under our indebtedness depends in part on our earnings and cash flows and those of our subsidiaries and on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance or repay funds to us. We conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to service our debt is dependent, in large part, upon the earnings from the businesses conducted by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to us, whether by dividends, loans, advances or other payments. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to us depends on their earnings, capital requirements and general financial conditions and is restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate and other laws and regulations as well as, in the future, agreements to which our subsidiaries may be a party. Our borrowings under our revolving credit facility and first lien term loan facility expose us to interest rate risk. Our earnings are exposed to interest rate risk associated with borrowings under our revolving credit facility and first lien term loan facility. Our revolving credit facility and first lien term loan facility carry a floating interest rate; therefore, as interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In 2018, the United States Federal Reserve raised interest rates four times. Risks Related to Our Restructuring Upon our emergence from chapter 11, the composition of our shareholder base and concentration of equity ownership changed significantly. As a result, the future strategy and plans of the Company may differ materially from those of the past. Due to a severe industry downturn beginning in late 2014, on May 1, 2017, the Nuverra Parties filed voluntary petitions under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court to pursue the Plan. On July 25, 2017, the Bankruptcy Court entered the Confirmation Order. The Plan became effective on the Effective Date, when all remaining conditions to the effectiveness of the Plan were satisfied or waived. On June 22, 2018, the Bankruptcy Court issued a final decree and order closing the chapter 11 cases, subject to certain conditions as set forth therein. Upon our emergence from chapter 11, 2 shareholder groups beneficially own approximately 90% (the Significant Shareholders ) of our issued and outstanding common stock and, therefore, have significant control on the outcome of matters 19 submitted to a vote of shareholders, including, but not limited to, electing directors and approving corporate transactions. As a result, the future strategy and plans of the Company may differ materially from those of the past. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of the Significant Shareholders could be in conflict with the interests of other shareholders, and the Significant Shareholders would have substantial influence to cause us to take actions that align with their interests. Should conflicts arise, we can provide no assurance that the Significant Shareholders would act in the best interests of other shareholders or that any conflicts of interest would be resolved in a manner favorable to our other shareholders. The effects of the pending appeal of the Confirmation Order are difficult to predict. On July 26, 2017, David Hargreaves, an individual holder of our pre Effective Date 9.875% Senior Notes due 2018 (the 2018 Notes ), appealed the Confirmation Order to the District Court of the District of Delaware (the District Court ) and filed a motion for a stay pending appeal from the District Court. Although the motion for a stay pending appeal was denied, the appeal remained pending and the District Court heard oral arguments on May 14, 2018. On August 21, 2018 the District Court issued an order dismissing the appeal. Hargreaves subsequently appealed the District Court decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. The parties filed appellate briefs in December 2018 and January 2019, and as a result the appeal remains pending with the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. The ultimate outcome of this appeal and its effects on the Confirmation Order are impossible to predict with certainty. No assurance can be given that the final disposition of this appeal will not affect the validity, enforceability or finality of the Confirmation Order. Information contained in our historical financial statements will not be comparable to the information contained in our financial statements after the application of fresh start accounting. This Annual Report on Form 10 K reflects the consummation of the Plan and the adoption of fresh start accounting. As a result, our financial statements from and after the Effective Date will not be comparable to our financial statements for prior periods. This will make it difficult for shareholders to assess our performance in relation to prior periods. Please see Note 5 on Fresh Start Accounting in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. There is no guarantee that the warrants issued by us in accordance with the Plan will become in the m1y, and unexercised warrants may expire worthless. As long as our stock price is below $39.82 per share, the warrants will have limited economic value, and they may expire worthless. Additionally, no warrant holder has, by virtue of holding or having a beneficial interest in the warrants, the right to vote, consent, receive any cash dividends, allotments or rights or other distributions paid, allotted or distributed or distributable to the holders of common stock, or to exercise any rights whatsoever as a stockholder unless, until, and only to the extent such warrant holder becomes a holder of record of shares of common stock issued upon settlement of warrants. Risk Factors Related To Our Common Stock We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will develop or be maintained, and the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. We cannot assure you that an active public market for our common stock will develop or, if it develops, be sustained. We currently have a limited trading volume of our common stock. In the absence of an active public trading market, it may be difficult to liquidate your investment in our common stock. The trading price of our common stock on the NYSE American may fluctuate significantly. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. These risks include, among other things our operating and financial performance and prospects; our ability to repay our debt; investor perceptions of us and the industry and markets in which we operate; future sales, or the availability for sale, of equity or equity related securities; changes in earnings estimates or buy sell recommendations by analysts; limited trading volume of our common stock; and 20 general financial, domestic, economic and other market conditions. The trading price of our common stock may not reflect accurately the value of our business. As a result of our completed restructuring, ownership of our common stock is highly concentrated, and there are a limited number of shares available for trading on the NYSE American or any other public market. As a result, reported trading prices for our common stock at any given time may not reflect accurately the underlying economic value of our business at that time. Reported trading prices could be higher or lower than the price a shareholder would be able to receive in a sale transaction, and there can be no assurance that there will be sufficient public trading in our common stock to create a liquid trading market that accurately reflects the underlying economic value of our business. The resale of shares of our common stock, including shares issuable upon exercise of our warrants, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. At the time of our emergence from bankruptcy, we granted registration rights to certain stockholders. The shares of our outstanding common stock held by these stockholders were registered pursuant to a registration statement filed pursuant to the Securities Act and declared effective by the SEC on May 3, 2018. In addition, on January 3, 2019, an additional 3,220,330 shares were issued to these stockholders pursuant to our recently completed rights offering. The shares held by these stockholders constitute approximately 90% of our outstanding common stock as of February 28, 2019 , all of which may be sold in the public markets. Furthermore, as of February 28, 2019 , there were 118,137 warrants outstanding, which were issued to the holders of our pre Effective Date 2018 Notes and holders of certain claims relating to the rejection of executory contracts and unexpired leases. The exercise price of the warrants is $39.82 To the extent such warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to the holders of our common stock and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. The sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock, including shares issuable upon exercise of our warrants, or substantial trading in our common stock or the perception in the market that substantial trading in our common stock will occur, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors in our securities. The stock markets have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may also fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control variations in our quarterly operating results and changes in our liquidity position; changes in securities analysts estimates of our financial performance; inaccurate or negative comments about us on social ne2rking websites or other media channels; changes in market valuations of similar companies; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new products or product enhancements, as well as our or our competitors success or failure in successfully executing such matters; announcements by us of strategic plans to restructure our indebtedness or of a bankruptcy filing; changes in the price of oil and natural gas; loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; and additions or departures of key personnel. 21 If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our shares of common stock could rely in part on the research and reporting that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, if 1 or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrades our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If 1 or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Future sales by us or our existing shareholders could depress the market price of our common stock. If we or our existing shareholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Further, even the perception in the public market that we or our existing shareholders might sell shares of common stock could depress the market price of the common stock. We may issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the future and shareholders may be adversely affected by the issuance of those shares. We may raise additional capital by issuing shares of common stock, or other securities convertible into common stock, which will increase the number of shares of common stock outstanding and may result in substantial dilution in the equity interest of our current shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. On January 3, 2019, an additional 3,381,894 shares were issued to stockholders pursuant to our recently completed rights offering, bringing our total outstanding shares to 15,614,981 as of February 28, 2019 . The issuance, and the resale or potential resale, of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could be dilutive to our shareholders. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock, and restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements may prohibit us from paying dividends now or in the future. While we may declare dividends at some point in the future, subject to compliance with such restrictions and covenants, we cannot assure you that you will ever receive cash dividends as a result of ownership of our common stock and any gains from investment in our common stock may only come from increases in the market price of our common stock, if any. Certain of our charter and bylaw provisions and Delaware law, as well as the substantial ownership of our common stock by a small number of shareholders, could subject us to anti takeover effects or could have a material negative impact on our business. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each as amended and restated, and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our management and board of directors. These provisions include authorizing the issuance of blank check preferred stock without any need for action by shareholders; establishing a classified board of directors, so that only approximately 1 third of our directors are elected each year; providing our board of directors with the ability to set the number of directors and to fill vacancies on the board of directors occurring between shareholder meetings; providing that directors may only be removed for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority in voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock; and limiting the ability of our shareholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for 3 years following the date the beneficial owner acquired at least 15% of our stock, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. 22 The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti takeover measures, as well as the significant percentage of common stock beneficially owned by our Significant Shareholders, could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our Company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. Risks Related to Environmental and Other Governmental Regulation We are subject to United States federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to health, safety, transportation, and protection of natural resources and the environment. Under these laws and regulations, we may become liable for significant penalties, damages or costs of remediation. Any changes in laws and regulations could increase our costs of doing business. Our operations, and those of our customers, are subject to United States federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to health, safety, transportation and protection of natural resources and the environment and worker safety, including those relating to waste management and transportation and disposal of produced water and other materials. For example, we are subject to environmental regulation relating to disposal into injection wells, which can pose some risks of environmental liability, as well as liability for property damage and personal injuries. In addition, federal, state and local laws and regulations could increase costs to our customers and possibly decrease demand for our services. For example, many of our customers have intrastate pipeline operations that are subject to regulation by various agencies of the states in which they are located. If new laws and or regulations that further regulate intrastate pipelines are adopted in response to equipment failures, spills, negative environmental effects, or public sentiment, our customers may face increased costs of compliance, and thus reduce demand for our services. Our business involves the use, handling, storage, and contracting for recycling or disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Accordingly, we are subject to health and environmental regulations established by federal, state, and local authorities. We also are subject to laws, ordinances, and regulations governing the investigation and remediation of contamination at facilities we operate or to which we send hazardous or toxic substances or wastes for recycling or disposal. In particular, the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation & Liability Act ( CERCLA ) imposes strict joint and several liability on owners and operators of facilities at, from, or to which a release of hazardous substances has occurred; on parties that generated hazardous substances that were released at such facilities; and on parties that transported or arranged for the transportation of hazardous substances to such facilities. A majority of states have adopted comparable statutes. Under CERCLA or a similar state statute, we could be held liable for all investigative and remedial costs associated with addressing such contamination. Claims alleging personal injury or property damage also could be brought against us based on alleged exposure to hazardous substances resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in the assessment of significant administrative, civil or criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, revocation of permits, and orders to limit or cease certain operations. Additionally, future events, such as the discovery of currently unknown matters, spills caused by future pipeline ruptures, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or their interpretation, and more vigorous enforcement policies by regulatory agencies, may give rise to expenditures or liabilities, which could impair our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, legal requirements change frequently and are subject to interpretation. New laws, regulations and changing interpretations by regulatory authorities, together with uncertainty regarding adequate testing and sampling procedures, new pollution control technology and cost benefit analysis based on market conditions are all factors that may increase our future capital expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. Accordingly, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of future compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing, including regulation of the quantities, sources and methods of water use and disposal, could result in reduction in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells or minimize water use or disposal, which could adversely impact the demand for our services. Demand for our services depends, in large part, on the level of exploration and production of oil and natural gas and the oil and natural gas industry willingness to purchase our services. Most of our customer base uses hydraulic fracturing to drill new oil and natural gas wells. Hydraulic fracturing is used to release hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from certain geological formations. The process involves the injection of water (typically mixed with significant quantities of sand and small quantities of chemical additives) under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate movement of hydrocarbons through the formation. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions and since 2005 23 has been exempt from federal regulation under the SDWA, except when the fracturing fluids or propping agents contain diesel fuels. The EPA has been reviewing the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities. On February 11, 2014, the EPA released a revised underground injection control ( UIC ) program permitting guidance for wells that use diesel fuels during hydraulic fracturing activities to clarify how companies can comply with a 2005 federal law that exempts hydraulic fracturing operations from the UIC permit requirement, except where diesel fuel is used as a fracturing fluid. On July 16, 2015, the EPA Inspector General (IG) issued a report entitled Enhanced EPA Oversight and Action Can Further Protect Water Resources From the Potential Impacts of Hydraulic Fracturing stating that the EPA should enhance its oversight of permit issuance for hydraulic fracturing by state and develop a plan for responding to concerns about chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. On May 19, 2014, the EPA issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking announcing its intention to develop a rule under the Toxic Substances Control Act ( TSCA ) to require disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. While the EPA regulatory agenda previously estimated that the EPA would issue a proposed TSCA rule in June 2018, the agency withdrew the action in March 2018. The EPA regulatory agenda stated, however, that the withdrawal does not preclude the EPA from developing a similar action in the future. On October 15, 2012, new EPA regulations under the CAA went into effect that require reductions in certain criteria and hazardous air pollutant emissions from hydraulic fracturing wells. In May 2016, the EPA issued new CAA regulations to reduce methane emissions from oil and gas operations, including hydraulic fracturing, although in September 2018 the EPA proposed revisions to limit certain provisions of the regulations. On June 13, 2016, the EPA finalized regulations under the CWA to prohibit wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other natural gas production to municipal sewage plants (called publicly owned treatment works ( POTWs )). The regulations went into effect on August 29, 2016 for most facilities, but the EPA extended the compliance date to August 29, 2019 for facilities that had been lawfully discharging extraction wastewater to POTWs prior to June 28, 2016. In December 2016, the EPA issued a final report entitled Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas Impacts from the Hydraulic Fracturing Water Cycle on Drinking Water Resources in the United States that concluded that hydraulic fracturing can impact drinking water resources under some circumstances, but stated that the national frequency of impacts on drinking water could not be estimated due to significant data gaps and uncertainties in the available data. In March 2015, the Department of the Interior ( DOI ) issued regulations imposing stringent requirements on hydraulic fracturing wells constructed on federal lands, but DOI rescinded the regulations in December 2017. Legislation was introduced during the last Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, including, requiring disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process and potentially repealing the SWDA exemption. Similar legislation may be proposed in the future. If adopted, such legislation would add another level of regulation and permitting at the federal level for wells using hydraulic fracturing. Laws and regulations restricting hydraulic fracturing have been adopted or are being considered in several states, including certain states in which we operate. In November 2017, the Delaware River Basin Commission issued proposed regulations that would ban high volume hydraulic fracturing in certain areas of Pennsylvania, New York, New Jersey and Delaware. Those regulations may be finalized this year. Some local governments have also sought to restrict drilling. Some regulators have adopted or are considering additional requirements for hydraulic fracturing related to seismic activities. For example, in April 2014, the Ohio Department of Natural Resources issued new guidelines that require companies to install seismic monitors for any horizontal drilling within 3 miles of a known fault or area of seismic activity greater than 20 magnitude and allow regulators to halt drilling in the event of an earthquake greater than 10 magnitude. In Texas, the Texas Railroad Commission (the RRC ) amended its existing oil and natural gas disposal well regulations to require applicants for new disposal wells to conduct seismic activity searches utilizing the U.S. Geological Survey to assess whether the RRC should impose limits on existing wells, including a temporary injection ban. Arkansas has prohibited waste water injection in certain areas of the state due to concerns that hydraulic fracturing may be related to increased earthquake activity. Such laws and regulations could delay or curtail production of oil and natural gas by our customers, and thus reduce demand for our services. Future United States federal, state or local laws or regulations could significantly restrict, or increase costs associated with hydraulic fracturing and make it more difficult or costly for producers to conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, which could result in a decline in exploration and production. New laws and regulations, and new enforcement policies by regulatory agencies, could also expressly restrict the quantities, sources and methods of water use and disposal in hydraulic fracturing and otherwise increase our costs and our customers cost of compliance, which could minimize water use and disposal needs even if other limits on drilling and completing new wells were not imposed. Any decline in exploration and production or any restrictions on water use and disposal could result in a decline in demand for our services and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 24 Delays or restrictions in obtaining permits by our customers for their operations or by us for our operations could impair our business. In most states, our customers are required to obtain permits from 1 or more governmental agencies in order to perform drilling and completion activities and we may be required to procure permits for construction and operation of our disposal wells and pipelines. Such permits are typically required by state agencies, but they can be required by federal and local governmental agencies as well. The requirements for such permits vary, but with all governmental permitting processes, there is a degree of uncertainty as to whether a permit will be granted, the time it will take for a permit to be issued, and the conditions that may be imposed by the permit. Delays or restrictions in obtaining saltwater disposal well permits could adversely impact our growth, which is dependent in part on new disposal capacity. Our customers have been affected by moratoriums that have been imposed on the issuance of permits for drilling and completion activities in certain jurisdictions. For example, in December 2014, the State of New York announced a ban on hydraulic fracturing in the state. A moratorium has been in place within the Delaware River Basin pending finalization of regulations by the Delaware River Basin Commission that would permanently ban high volume hydraulic fracturing in the Basin. Other states, including California, Texas, Arkansas, Pennsylvania, Wyoming and Colorado, have enacted laws and regulations applicable to our business activities, including disclosure of information regarding the substances used in hydraulic fracturing. On January 9, 2014, the EPA issued a revised CWA permit requiring oil and natural gas companies using hydraulic fracturing off the coast of California to disclose the chemicals they discharge into the ocean. Some drilling and completion activities by our customers may take place on federal land, requiring leases from the federal government to conduct such drilling and completion activities. In some cases, federal agencies have canceled oil and natural gas leases on federal lands. Consequently, our operations in certain areas of the country may be interrupted or suspended for varying lengths of time, causing a loss of revenue and potentially having a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to the trucking safety regulations, which are likely to be amended, and made stricter, as part of the initiative known as Compliance, Safety, Accountability, or CSA. If our current USDOT safety rating of Satisfactory is downgraded in connection with this initiative, our business and results of our operations may be adversely affected. As part of the CSA initiative, the FMCSA is continuously revising its safety rating methodology and implementation of the same. These revisions will likely link safety ratings more closely to roadside inspection and driver violation data gathered and analyzed from month to month under the FMCSA new Safety Measurement System, or SMS and may place increased scrutiny on carriers transporting significant quantities of hazardous material. This linkage could result in greater variability in safety ratings than the current system. Preliminary studies by transportation consulting firms indicate that Satisfactory ratings (or any equivalent under a new SMS based system) may become more difficult to achieve and maintain under such a system. If our operations lose their current Satisfactory rating, which is the highest and best rating under this initiative, we may lose some of our customer contracts that require such a rating, adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments N1 Item 2 Item 2 Properties
