CIK: 1437557
Company Name: LILIS ENERGY INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-03-07
Accession Number: 0001437557-19-000025


Item 1 and 2 Business and Properties Overview Lilis is an independent oil and gas company focused on the exploration, development, production, and acquisition of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, or NGLs, from properties in the Permian Basin. Our operations are focused in the Delaware Basin of the Permian in Winkler, Loving, and Reeves Counties, Texas and Lea County, New Mexico, where the production is approximately 74% crude oil and NGLs, or Liquids, a relatively high liquid production ratio compared to many of our peers. Over 90% our of revenues are generated from the sale of Liquids. The Company is managed by a focused and experienced management team that is dedicated to rapidly increasing the Company production, reserves, and acreage position. Our History The Company was incorporated in the State of Nevada in 2007. The name of the corporation was changed to Lilis Energy, Inc. in December 2013, and at such time, the Company was primarily focused on the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas properties in the Denver Julesburg (DJ) Basin. In June 2016, we completed a transformative merger transaction with Brushy Resources, Inc. ( Brushy Resources or Brushy ), which resulted in the acquisition of a substantial portion of the Company current assets in the Permian Basin. Given the stacked pay opportunities and high rates of return in the Permian Basin, the Company determined that it would focus exclusively on expanding and developing its core Permian Basin assets and completed the divestiture of all of its oil and gas properties located in the DJ Basin in March 2017. Our Business We are a pure play Permian Basin company focused on realizing the highest returns and delineating our acreage position to increase the value of our stock for our stockholders. Our Business Strategy Our goal is to grow our Company and increase stockholder value by generating cash flow primarily from new production of Liquids, as well as through delineation drilling on our existing acreage. We continue to focus on developing our existing acreage position, growing our production and reserves, and expanding our core assets in the Delaware Basin through strategic acquisitions, acreage exchanges, and organic leasing. We plan to achieve our objectives by implementing a business strategy focused on the following Leverage our Extensive Operational Expertise to Reduce Costs and Plan for Cash Flow Neutrality. We actively manage the level of our development, leasing and acquisition activity in response to commodity prices, access to capital, and the performance of our wells. We recently announced our recapitalization, which allows us to better manage our assets (See "2019 Second Lien Term Loan Conversion and Borrowing Base Redetermination" and "Subsequent Events" for further information regarding our recapitalization). As of December 31, 2018, we operated approximately 99% of our acreage position, giving us significant control over the pace of our development and allowing us to increase value through operational and cost efficiencies. We intend to obtain the highest possible returns on the capital we expend on our development projects using results from the wells we have completed and the operational expertise of our management team. We will continue to focus on operational efficiencies, including midstream costs, salt water disposal, and capital costs of our development wells in order to maximize returns to our stockholders. We have increased our operational efficiency by entering into various infrastructure transactions, and we have structured our balance sheet with the intent to achieve cash flow neutrality in 2019 and significantly reduce our leverage profile over time. Additionally, we have an active hedging program to provide certainty regarding our cash flow and protect returns from our development activity in the event of decreases in the prices received for our production. 5 Realizing Highest Returns and Delineating Acreage. We plan to drill and develop our existing acreage base of approximately 28,500 gross (20,400 net) acres in the Delaware Basin, which we believe will maximize our resource potential and increase value to our stockholders. Our drilling activity during 2018 was predominantly focused on the horizontal development and delineation of our core acreage position in the Delaware Basin. We increased our net sales production volumes by 215% to 4,965 BOE d in 2018, as compared to 2017. We averaged 8,081 net BOE d from December 25 through December 31, 2018, achieving our 2018 year end exit rate target of 8,000 BOE d. Additionally, as a result of our development efforts, acreage exchanges and acquisitions, our proved reserves increased 273% from December 31, 2017, to approximately 42,707 MBOE (thousand barrels of oil equivalent) as of December 31, 2018. Our proved reserves were Liquids rich, being comprised of approximately 69% Liquids (50% oil and 19% NGLs) and 31% natural gas. Through the continued development of our properties, we plan to de risk our acreage position and substantially increase our Liquids production and cash flow, thereby increasing the value of our properties. Our current leasehold position in the Delaware Basin has significant stacked pay potential, which we believe includes at least five to seven productive z1s in the Wolfcamp and B1 Springs formations. We estimate that all productive z1s within our properties may support approximately 1,175 future drilling locations. Increasing our Inventory and Improving Delineation. We plan to expand our inventory through delineation drilling of z1s on our existing acreage and through acquisitions, acreage exchanges, and organic leasing. Since entering the Delaware Basin in June 2016, we have extensively grown our acreage position by over 500% from 7,200 gross (3,400 net) acres to approximately 28,500 gross (20,400 net) acres and increased our average operated working interest to approximately 76% at December 31, 2018, through various strategic acquisitions, acreage exchanges, and organic leasing, and we operate approximately 99% of our acreage. Our acquisitions to date have added over 17,000 acres which represent a multi year inventory of approximately 1,175 identified, potential drilling locations across at least five to seven productive pay z1s. We plan to continue evaluating opportunities for strategic acquisitions, acreage exchanges, and organic leasing in our core areas of operation. We also expect that our drilling activity will grow our inventory and the identified resource potential of our Delaware Basin properties. Throughout 2018, we successfully drilled and announced our average 24 hour, 30 day initial production data on 12 wells targeting the Wolfcamp A, Wolfcamp B, Wolfcamp XY, 2nd B1 Spring, and 3rd B1 Spring formations. We believe that our current reserves represent only a small portion of the resource potential within our acreage. Our development plan for 2019 contemplates the continued delineation of our acreage both geographically and geologically and by drilling and completing wells within additional prospective benches. Utilizing our Cost Efficient Infrastructure Solutions. To support our operations and sales of our production, we have entered into various infrastructure and sales agreements that we believe secures cost effective movement of our Liquids and natural gas in Texas and New Mexico. We entered into several agreements with Salt Creek Midstream ("SCM") and its affiliates to provide crude gathering and transportation and water gathering and disposal infrastructure and services, including a crude oil transportation and sales agreement to secure pipeline capacity on a long haul crude oil pipeline to the Gulf Coast, pursuant to which all volumes will have Gulf Coast pricing based on Magellan East Houston pricing throughout the 5 year term. We anticipate significantly lower crude transportation costs from approximately $5.15 per Bbl at December 31, 2018, to approximately $0.75 per Bbl commencing in March 2019, as a result of increased pipeline transportation of our crude oil under the gathering agreement with SCM. As a result of our infrastructure agreements, our salt water disposal costs decreased from approximately $250 per barrel in 2018 to approximately $0.49 per barrel in 2019. In 2017, we entered into a long term gas gathering and processing agreement with an affiliate of Lucid Energy Group ( Lucid ) to support our active drilling program in the Delaware Basin. Pursuant to our agreement with Lucid, there are no minimum volume commitments and all gas transported via Lucid is sent to Lucid 310 million cubic feet per day Red Hills Natural Gas Process Complex located in Lea County, New Mexico, where it is treated and processed then transported pursuant to transportation contracts through various long haul pipelines with access to west coast markets, gulf coast markets, Permian markets and MidCon markets. Lucid is responsible for all capital costs in New Mexico and Texas, other than gathering lines from the wellhead to various Lucid receipt points. We believe that our infrastructure and sales agreements will further our operational efficiency, as well as provide us significant cost savings, advantaged crude pricing in the Gulf Coast markets, and more consistent production flowing to sales in 2019 and future years. 6 Our Strengths Established Acreage Position in the Core of the Delaware Basin. We believe we have assembled a substantial portfolio of Delaware Basin properties that offers high rate of return exploration and development opportunities. As of December 31, 2018, we held over 28,500 gross (20,400 net) acres in the core of the Delaware Basin, where we had an average operated working interest of approximately 76%. As of December 31, 2018, we operated approximately 99% of such acreage. Our acreage is geographically concentrated and highly contiguous, allowing us to capitalize on economies of scale with respect to drilling and production costs. We believe those efficiencies provide us with an advantage in competing for acquisitions, acreage exchanges, and organic leasing opportunities on and around our acreage. Multi year Portfolio of Drilling and Development Opportunities. We have a significant inventory of drilling and development locations in Winkler, Loving and Reeves Counties, Texas and Lea County, New Mexico. We believe our properties form part of the core of the Delaware Basin. Based on our drilling to date and results from nearby wells, we have identified approximately 1,175 potential horizontal well locations on our acreage, including approximately 700 longer lateral locations. Our leasehold position has significant stacked pay potential, which we believe includes at least five to seven productive z1s. We believe that our inventory of drilling locations will allow us to grow our reserves and production at attractive rates of return based on current expectations for commodity prices. High Degree of Operational Control. We operate approximately 99% of our acreage, which gives us significant control over the pace of our development and the ability to design a more efficient and profitable drilling program to maximize recovery of oil and natural gas. Based on our drilling and production results to date and well established offset operator activity in and around our project areas, we believe there are relatively low geologic risks and ample repeatable drilling opportunities across our core acreage. Strengthening Financial Position and Flexibility. We believe our financial position is strong and sufficient to fund our drilling and completion operations currently planned for 2019. In October 2018, we announced our entry into a new five year $500 million senior secured reserve based revolving credit facility ( Revolving Credit Agreement ) with an initial borrowing base of $95 million, that refinanced our first lien term loan with Riverst1 Credit Partners, LLC. As of December 7, 2018, the borrowing base of our Revolving Credit Agreement had increased to $108 million. The Company enhanced liquidity through the Revolving Credit Agreement and through a tack on to the outstanding Series C Preferred Stock (as hereinafter defined). Additionally, the Company converted a portion of its Second Lien Term Loan (as hereinafter defined) to a combination of preferred and common equity, which resulted in a significant paid in kind interest expense savings. We have a solid relationship with V rde Partners, Inc. and its affiliates, who have partnered with us since the time of the Brushy Resources transaction and provided us with access to significant capital resources and financing opportunities. The Company had increased its liquidity to $54.1 million as of year end 2018, including $33 million in availability under its Revolving Credit Agreement and $211 million in cash. Additionally, we recently announced our recapitalization, which allows us to better manage our assets (See "2019 Second Lien Term Loan Conversion and Borrowing Base Redetermination" and "Subsequent Events" for further information regarding our recapitalization). We believe our financial liquidity position provides us operational flexibility and a path toward continued growth in our oil and natural gas production, proved reserves, and cash flows. Experienced Management Team. We have an experienced and skilled management team with a long track record of driving growth through asset development and strategic acquisitions. We believe that our team operational expertise and extensive experience through various commodity price cycles position us to operate effectively and efficiently and, in turn, will help increase returns and value to our stockholders. Oil and Natural Gas Properties As of December 31, 2018, we owned leasehold acreage in approximately 28,500 gross (20,400 net) acres in the Delaware Basin, comprised of approximately 16,300 net acres in Winkler, Loving, and Reeves Counties, Texas and approximately 4,100 net acres in Lea County, New Mexico. Average net sales production volumes from our properties increased approximately 215% to 4,965 BOE d in 2018 from 1,576 BOE d in 2017. We averaged 8,081 net BOE d from December 25 through December 31, 2018, achieving our 2018 year end exit rate target of 8,000 BOE d. We currently estimate our properties include at least five to seven productive z1s and hold approximately 1,175 future drilling locations across all of the productive z1s within this position. Our reserve estimates include 37 horizontal PUD wells, as well as the capital costs required to develop these wells. 7 Reserve Data Proved Reserves The following table presents our estimated net proved oil and natural gas reserves as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, based on the reserve reports prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. Each reserve report has been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. All of our proved reserves included in the reserve reports are located in the Delaware Basin of the Permian Basin Summary of Oil and Gas Reserves For the Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 Proved Developed Reserves Oil (MBbls) 6,278 2,531 551 NGLs (MBbls) 2,654 645 3 Total Liquids (MBbls) 8,932 3,176 554 Natural Gas (MMcf) 27,046 6,594 3,872 Total MBOE 13,440 4,275 1,199 Proved Undeveloped Reserves Oil (MBbls) 14,927 4,640 NGLs (MBbls) 5,723 960 Total Liquids (MBbls) 20,650 5,600 Natural Gas (MMcf) 51,703 9,466 Total MBOE 29,267 7,178 Total Proved Reserves Oil (MBbls) 21,205 7,171 551 NGLs (MBbls) 8,377 1,605 3 Total Liquids (MBbls) 29,582 8,776 554 Natural Gas (MMcf) 78,749 16,060 3,872 Total MBOE 42,707 11,453 1,199 Proved Undeveloped Reserves As of December 31, 2018, we had a total of 29,267 MBOE proved undeveloped reserves. During 2018, we added 22,088 MBOE of proved undeveloped ( PUD ) reserves through the extension of proved acreage, primarily as a result of successful drilling on properties in the core of the Delaware Basin in Winkler, Loving, and Reeves Counties, Texas and Lea County, New Mexico. The increase in our PUDs was partially offset by the reclassification of 2,470 MBOE, previously included in the year end 2017 PUDs, to PDPs as a result of our horizontal development of our properties. Costs incurred relating to the development of PUDs were approximately $68.3 million during 2018. Estimated future development costs relating to the development of PUDs are projected to be approximately $34.3 million in 2019, $128.0 million in 2020, $104.0 million in 2021 and $721 million in 2022 Our estimates of proved undeveloped reserve quantities are limited by development drilling activity that we intend to undertake during the 2019 to 2022 timeframe. At December 31, 2018, we had no reserves that remained undeveloped for five or more years, and all PUD drilling locations are currently scheduled to be drilled within five years of their initial recording. For 8 additional information regarding the changes in our proved reserves, see our Supplementary Information on Oil and Natural Gas Exploration, Development and Production Activities to our consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report Control over Reserve Estimates Our reserve data and estimates were compiled and prepared internally and audited by our third party independent consultants, Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. ( CG&A ), as described in more detail herein, in compliance with SEC definitions and guidance and in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering principles. Internal Controls over Reserves Estimate Our policy regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves is structured to objectively and accurately estimate our oil and gas reserve quantities and values in compliance with the regulations of the SEC. Responsibility for compliance in reserve bookings is delegated to our Chief Financial Officer with assistance from our senior geologist and a senior reservoir engineer. Technical reviews are performed throughout the year by our senior reservoir engineer and our senior geologist and other consultants who evaluate all available geological and engineering data, under the guidance of our Chief Financial Officer. This data, in conjunction with economic data and ownership information, is used in making a determination of estimated proved reserve quantities. Chris Cantrell, our senior reservoir engineer, has overseen our reserve processes since 2016. Mr. Cantrell received a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University in 1995. He is a registered professional engineer licensed in the State of Texas. He has been continuously involved in evaluating oil and gas properties since 1997 and is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and the American Petroleum Institute. Our Reserves Committee, a committee of our Board of Directors, assists management and the Board with their oversight of our reserves estimation and certification process and the work of our independent reserve engineer. The members of the Reserves Committee currently consist of R. Glenn Dawson, John Johanning, and Nicholas Steinsberger. Mr. Dawson serves as the Chairman of the Reserves Committee. The Committee charter specifies the oversight responsibilities of the Reserves Committee, which include, without limitation, oversight of the Company reserve estimates and related disclosures of same by the Company; oversight of the qualifications, training, and independence of the independent reservoir petroleum engineers and other geoscientists proposed to be engaged to audit or report on the reserves of the Company; oversight of the evaluation of oil and gas producing activities and operations and acquisition opportunities; and oversight of hydrocarbon reserve and resource matters as deemed necessary or appropriate in the interest of the Company and its stockholders. Our reserves estimates and the corresponding report from CG&A, along with the process for developing such estimates, are also reviewed by our geologist and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors to ensure compliance with SEC disclosure and internal control requirements and to verify the independence of our third party consultants. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors reviews the final reserves estimate in conjunction with CG&A audit letter. Third Party Reserves Study Our controls over reserve estimates include retaining an independent third party consultant, CG&A, as our independent petroleum engineering consulting firm to perform a reserves audit of our reserves estimates. We provided to CG&A information about our oil and gas properties, including production information, prices and costs, and CG&A performed reserve studies using its own engineering assumptions and the economic data provided by us. All of our total calculated proved reserve value was audited by CG&A, and all of the information regarding our 2018, 2017, and 2016 reserves in this Annual Report is derived from CG&A reports. CG&A is an independent petroleum engineering consulting firm that has been providing petroleum engineering consulting services for over 20 years. The individual at CG&A primarily responsible for overseeing our reserve audit is Todd Brooker, President of CG&A, who received a Bachelor of Science degree in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Texas and is a registered Professional Engineer in the State of Texas. He is also a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Mr. Brooker and the other technical persons employed by CG&A engaged in the reserve study met the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Natural Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineer. Oil and natural gas reserves and the estimates of the present value of future net cash flows therefrom were determined based on prices and costs as prescribed by the SEC and Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) guidelines. Reserve calculations involve the estimate of future net recoverable reserves of oil and natural gas and the timing and amount of future net 9 cash flows to be received therefrom. Such estimates are not precise and are based on assumptions regarding a variety of factors, many of which are variable and uncertain. Proved reserves were estimated in accordance with guidelines established by the SEC and the FASB, which require that reserve estimates be prepared under existing economic and operating conditions with no provision for price and cost escalations except by contractual arrangements. For the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, we based the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on the 12 month average oil and natural gas index prices, calculated as the un weighted arithmetic average for the first day of the month price for each month and costs in effect on the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the properties. Oil and Gas Production, Production Prices, and Production Costs Production Volumes and Sales Prices The following table summarizes the average volumes and realized prices of oil and natural gas produced from our properties during the periods indicated For the Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 Production Oil (Bbls) net production 1,089,724 371,993 61,088 Oil (per Bbl) average realized price $ 5326 $ 47.92 $ 39.59 Natural gas liquids (Bbls) net production 246,425 73,875 11,355 Natural gas liquids (per Bbl) average realized price $ 28.11 $ 2249 $ 15.22 Natural Gas (Mcf) production 2,855,739 776,164 332,643 Natural Gas (per Mcf) average realized price $ 184 $ 274 $ 254 Barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) 1,812,106 575,229 127,863 Average daily net production (BOE) 4,965 1,576 350 Average Sales Price per BOE $ 38.75 $ 37.57 $ 26.87 Oil and Natural Gas Production Costs, Production Taxes, Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization The following table sets forth certain information regarding oil and natural gas production costs, production taxes, and depreciation, depletion and amortization For the Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 Production costs per BOE $ 9.51 $ 1221 $ 1243 Production taxes per BOE 205 206 (130 ) Depreciation, depletion, and amortization per BOE 14.00 1221 1225 Total operating costs per BOE $ 25.56 $ 26.48 $ 2338 The average oil and NGL sales prices above are calculated by dividing revenue from oil sales by volume of oil sold, in barrels Bbls. The average natural gas sales prices above are calculated by dividing revenue from natural gas sales by the volume of natural gas sold, in thousand cubic feet Mcf. The total average sales price amounts are calculated by dividing total revenues by total volume sold, in BOE. The average production costs above are calculated by dividing production costs by total production in BOE. Acreage The following table sets forth our approximate gross and net developed and undeveloped leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2018 10 Undeveloped Acreage Developed Acreage Total Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Delaware Basin 14,200 9,000 14,300 11,400 28,500 20,400 Undeveloped Acreage Expirations Many of the leases comprising the undeveloped acreage set forth in the table above will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless production from the leasehold acreage has been established prior to such date, in which event the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production. The following table sets forth the net undeveloped acreage, as of December 31, 2018, that will expire over the next 3 years unless production is established within the spacing units covering the acreage or the lease is renewed or extended under continuous drilling provisions prior to the primary term expiration dates 2019 2020 2021 Delaware Basin 1,840 6,197 1,350 We plan to maintain our undeveloped acreage by establishing production within the spacing units covering the acreage or extending or renewing the leases prior to their expiration. Productive Wells As of December 31, 2018, we have had 27.0 gross (24.9 net) oil wells and 110 gross (8.1 net) natural gas wells. A net well is our percentage ownership interest in a gross well. Productive wells are either wells producing in commercial quantities or wells capable of commercial production, including natural gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Multiple completions in the same wellbore are counted as 1 well. A well is categorized under state reporting regulations as an oil well or a natural gas well based on the ratio of natural gas to oil produced when it first commenced production, and such designation may not be indicative of current production. Drilling Activity For the year ended December 31, 2018, we drilled 16.0 gross (135 net) horizontal wells in the Delaware Basin. We completed and placed on production 15.0 gross (14.3 net) horizontal wells. As of December 31, 2018, 6.0 gross (38 net) wells were drilled but not yet completed. All of these wells were successful, and n1 were a dry hole. The following table sets forth information with respect to the number of wells completed during the periods indicated. Each of these wells was drilled in the Delaware Basin in the Permian Basin. Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Exploratory Productive 9.00 8.7 5.0 4.2 Dry Development Productive 6.0 5.6 Dry Total Productive 15.0 14.3 5.0 4.2 Dry Present Activities 11 As of December 31, 2018 , we had 6.0 gross (38 net) wells in the process of drilling, completing, dewatering or shut in awaiting infrastructure. 12 Title to Properties We generally conduct a preliminary title examination prior to the acquisition of properties or leasehold interests. Prior to commencement of operations on such acreage, a thorough title examination will usually be conducted and any significant defects will be remedied before proceeding with operations. We believe the title to our leasehold properties is good, defensible and customary with practices in the oil and natural gas industry, subject to such exceptions that we believe do not materially detract from the use of such properties. Our properties are potentially subject to customary royalty and other interests, liens for current taxes, and other burdens which we be do not materially interfere with the use of or affect our carrying value of the properties. The majority of our Delaware Basin leasehold position is also subject to mortgages securing indebtedness under our credit and guarantee agreement. With respect to our properties of which we are not the record owner, we rely on contracts with the owner or operator of the property or assignment of leases, pursuant to which, among other things, we generally have the right to have our interest placed on record. Competitive Business Conditions The oil and gas industry is intensely competitive, particularly with respect to acquiring prospective oil and natural gas properties. We face intense competition from a substantial number of major and independent oil and gas companies, many of which have larger technical staffs and greater financial and operational resources. These companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects. We also compete with other oil and gas companies to secure drilling rigs and other equipment and services necessary for the drilling, completion, production, processing and maintenance of our wells, and we could face shortages or delays in securing these services from time to time if availability is limited. In addition, we compete to hire and retain professionals, including experienced geologists, geophysicists, engineers, and other professionals and consultants. We believe the location of our acreage, our technical expertise, available technologies, our financial resources, and the experience and knowledge of our management enables us to compete effectively in our core operating areas, but we recognize that many of our competitors have greater financial and operational resources. The oil and gas industry also faces competition from alternative fuel sources, including other fossil fuels such as coal and imported liquefied natural gas. Competitive conditions may also be affected by future new energy, climate related, financial, and other policies, legislation, and regulations. Marketing and Pricing We derive our revenue and cash flow principally from the sale of oil, natural gas and NGLs. As a result, our revenues are determined, to a large degree, by prevailing prices for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs. We sell our oil and natural gas on the open market at prevailing market prices or through forward delivery contracts. Because some of our operations are located outside major markets, we are directly impacted by regional prices regardless of Henry Hub, WTI or other major market pricing. The market price for oil, natural gas and NGLs is dictated by supply and demand; consequently, we cannot accurately predict or control the price we may receive for our oil, natural gas and NGLs. We have an active hedging program to provide certainty regarding our cash flow and to protect returns from our development activity in the event of decreases in the prices received for our production; however, hedging arrangements may expose us to risk of significant financial loss in some circumstances and may limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs. Major Customers We sell our production to a small number of customers which is common in the oil and gas industry. The following table outlines our major customers and their percentage contribution to our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 13 Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 Texican Crude & Hydrocarbons 87 % 85 % ETC Field Services 2 % 14 % Lucid Energy 10 % % Others below 10% 1 % 1 % 100 % 100 % Delivery Commitments As of December 31, 2018, we were not committed to providing a fixed quantity of oil or natural gas under any existing contracts. Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry General Our oil and natural gas exploration, production, and related operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations, which are under continued review for amendment, include matters relating to drilling and production practices; the disposal of water from operations and the processing, handling and disposal of hazardous materials; bonding, permitting and licensing, and reporting requirements; taxation; and marketing, transportation and pricing practices. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in substantial penalties, including administrative, civil, or criminal penalties. These laws and regulations increase our cost of doing business and can potentially affect our profitability. Regulation of Production of Oil and Natural Gas The production of oil and natural gas is subject to regulation under a wide range of federal, state and local laws, orders and regulations. These statutes and regulations require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations. The states in which we own and operate properties have regulations governing conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, the establishment of maximum allowable rates of production from oil and natural gas wells, the regulation of well spacing or density, and plugging and abandonment of wells. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce from our wells and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill, although we can apply for exceptions to such regulations or to have reductions in well spacing or density. We believe we are in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations; however, should we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties. Environmental, Health, and Safety Regulations Our operations are subject to stringent federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety ( EHS ). There are various governmental agencies, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ), the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration ( OSHA ) and analogous state agencies that have the authority to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations. Environmental laws and regulations may require that permits be obtained before drilling commences or facilities are commissi1d; restrict the types, quantities, and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; govern the handling and disposal of waste material; and limit or prohibit drilling and exploitation activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, and other protected areas, including areas containing threatened or endangered animal species. We do not believe that our environmental risks are materially different from those of comparable companies in the oil and gas industry. We believe our present activities substantially comply, in all material respects, with existing environmental laws and regulations. Nevertheless, environmental laws may result in a curtailment of production or material increases in the cost of production, development or exploration, and may otherwise adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we maintain liability insurance coverage for liabilities from pollution, environmental risks are generally not fully insurable. We are committed to strict compliance with these regulations. During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we incurred approximately $38,000 and approximately $32,000, respectively, related to compliance with environmental laws for our oil and natural gas properties. 14 The following is a summary of the more significant existing and proposed environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations to which our business operations are or may be subject and for which compliance may have a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, results of operations or financial position The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act . The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended ( RCRA ), and the comparable state statutes, regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non hazardous wastes. The RCRA imposes stringent operating requirements, and liability for failure to meet such requirements, on a person who is either a generator or transporter of hazardous waste or an owner or operator of a hazardous waste treatment, storage or disposal facility. The RCRA includes an exemption that allows certain oil and natural gas exploration and production waste to be classified as nonhazardous waste. A similar exemption is contained in many of the state counterparts to RCRA. As a result, we are not required to comply with a substantial portion of RCRA hazardous waste requirements. At various times in the past, proposals have been made to amend the RCRA to rescind the exemption that excludes oil and natural gas exploration and production wastes from regulation as hazardous waste. In 2016, the EPA agreed in a consent decree to review its regulation of oil and gas waste and has until March 2019 to determine whether revisions are necessary. In the event that we fail to comply with requirements for the handling of hazardous waste, administrative, civil and criminal penalties can be imposed. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable requirements related to hazardous waste handling. Repeal or modification of the RCRA oil and gas exemption, or modification of similar exemptions in applicable state statutes, would increase the volume of hazardous waste we are required to manage and dispose of and would cause us to incur potentially significant increased operating expenses. Water Discharges. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (also known as the Clean Water Act), the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Oil Pollution Act and analogous state laws and regulations impose restrictions and controls on the discharge of produced waters and other oil and natural gas wastes into navigable waters of the United States, as well as state waters. Permits must be obtained to discharge pollutants into state and federal waters and to discharge pollutants into regulated waters and wetlands. Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure requirements of the Clean Water Act require appropriate secondary containment loadout controls, piping controls, berms and other measures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters in the event of a petroleum hydrocarbon spill, rupture or leak. In June 2015, the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers jointly promulgated rules redefining the scope of waters protected under the Clean Water Act, and in October 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit stayed them nationwide. The EPA and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have resumed nationwide use of the agencies prior regulations defining the term waters of the United States. On February 28, 2017, President Trump directed the EPA to review the rules and publish for notice and comment a proposed rule rescinding or revising the rules, as appropriate and consistent with law. The Clean Water Act and comparable state statutes provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for unauthorized discharges of crude oil and other pollutants and impose liability on parties responsible for those discharges for the costs of cleaning up any environmental damage caused by the release and for natural resource damages resulting from the release. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ( Oil Pollution Act ) and regulations thereunder are the primary federal law for oil spill liability. The Oil Pollution Act contains numerous requirements relating to the prevention of and response to petroleum releases into waters in the United States and imposes a variety of regulations on responsible parties related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages resulting from such spills in United States waters. The Oil Pollution Act subjects each responsible party to strict liability for oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages, including, all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from a release, including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil to surface waters and natural resource damages. The Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended, establishes a regulatory framework for the underground injection of a variety of wastes, including brine produced and separated from crude oil and natural gas production, with the main goal being the protection of usable aquifers. The primary objective of injection well operating permits and requirements is to ensure the mechanical integrity of the wellbore and to prevent migration of fluids from the injection z1 into underground sources of drinking water. In response to recent seismic events near underground injection wells used for the disposal of oil and gas related wastewaters, federal and state agencies have been investigating whether such wells have caused increased seismic activity, and some states have shut down or imposed moratoria on the use of such injection wells. In Texas, the Texas Railroad Commission ( RRC ) regulates the disposal of produced water by injection well. The RRC requires operators to obtain a permit for the operation of saltwater disposal wells and establishes minimum standards for injection well operations. The RRC has adopted permit rules for injection wells to address these seismic activity concerns within the state. These rules could impact the availability of injection wells for disposal of wastewater from our operations. Increased costs associated with the transportation and disposal of produced water, including the cost of complying with regulations concerning produced water disposal, may reduce our profitability; however, we do not believe that the costs associated with the disposal of produced water will have a material adverse effect on our operations. 15 Failure to comply with these regulations may result in substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties, as well as injunctive obligations. We believe we are in material compliance with the requirements of each of these laws. Air Pollutant Emissions . The federal Clean Air Act (the Clean Air Act ), and comparable state and local air pollution laws, provide a framework for national, state and local efforts to protect air quality. Our operations utilize equipment that emits air pollutants which may be subject to federal and state air pollution control laws. These laws generally require utilization of air emissions control equipment to achieve prescribed emissions limitations and ambient air quality standards, as well as operating permits for existing equipment and construction permits for new and modified equipment. In May 2016, the EPA issued a final rule regarding the criteria for aggregating multiple small surface sites into a single source for air quality permitting purposes applicable to the oil and gas industry. This rule could cause small facilities, on an aggregate basis, to be deemed a major source, which would subject operators to more stringent air permitting processes and requirements. These laws and regulations may increase our costs of compliance, and we may face administrative, civil and criminal penalties if we fail to comply with the requirements of the federal Clean Air Act and associated state laws and regulations. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of applicable federal and state air pollution control laws. Regulation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions . The EPA has adopted regulations that, among other things, establish Prevention of Significant Deterioration ( PSD ), construction, and Title V operating permit requirements for certain new and modified large stationary sources to address findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases ( GHGs ) present an endangerment to public health and the environment. Facilities required to comply with PSD requirements for their GHG emissions will be required to meet best available control technology standards for those emissions, which will be established on a case by case basis. The EPA has also issued rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions, which include the reporting of GHG emissions from gathering and boosting systems, completions and workovers of oil wells using hydraulic fracturing, and blowdowns of natural gas transmission pipelines. While Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted federal legislation to reduce GHG emissions in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional cap and trade programs have emerged that typically require major sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting GHGs. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. Restrictions on GHG emissions that may be imposed could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources, as well as increase our costs of operations. Hydraulic Fracturing Activities . Hydraulic fracturing is a common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight unconventional formations. Federal and state occupational safety and health laws require us to organize and maintain information about hazardous materials used, released, or produced in our operations. Some of this information must be provided to our employees, state and local governmental authorities, and local citizens. We are also subject to the requirements and reporting framework set forth in the federal workplace standards. Several states and local jurisdictions have adopted, or are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, impose more stringent operating standards and or require the disclosure of the composition of hydraulic fracturing fluids. For example, the Texas Legislature adopted legislation requiring oil and gas operators to publicly disclose the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. The RRC adopted rules and regulations implementing this legislation that apply to all wells for which the RRC issues an initial drilling permit. The law requires that the well operator disclose the list of chemical ingredients subject to the requirements of OSHA for disclosure on an internet website and also file the list of chemicals with the RRC with the well completion report. The total volume of water used to hydraulically fracture a well must also be disclosed to the public and filed with the RRC. The RRC also adopted rules governing well casing, cementing and other standards for ensuring that hydraulic fracturing operations do not contaminate nearby water resources. Local government also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. We believe that we follow applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in our hydraulic fracturing activities; however, if new or more stringent federal, state, or local restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps 16 even be precluded from drilling wells. For additional information about hydraulic fracturing and related regulatory matters, see Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Oil and Gas Industry . Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act . The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ( CERCLA ), also known as the superfund law, imposes joint and several liabilities, regardless of fault or the legality of the original conduct, on some classes of persons that are considered to have contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of a disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that transport, dispose, or arrange for disposal of the hazardous substance(s) released. Persons who are or were responsible for releases of hazardous substances under CERCLA may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances and for damages to natural resources. We generate materials in the course of our operations that may be regulated as hazardous substances. Despite the petroleum exclusion of CERCLA, which currently encompasses natural gas, we may handle other hazardous substances within the meaning of CERCLA, or similar state statutes, in the course of our ordinary operations. In addition, we currently own, lease, or operate numerous properties that have been used for oil and natural gas exploration, production and processing for many years and some of our properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons was not under our control. Although we believe that we have utilized operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons may have been released on, under or from the properties owned or leased by us, or on, under or from other locations, including off site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. These properties and the substances disposed or released on, under or from them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state and local laws. Under these laws, we could be required to undertake investigatory, response, or corrective measures, which could include soil and groundwater sampling, the removal of previously disposed substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated property, or performance of remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination, the costs of which could be substantial. Endangered Species Act and Migratory Birds . The Endangered Species Act ( ESA ) restricts activities that may affect federally identified endangered and threatened species or their habitats through the implementation of operating restrictions or a temporary, seasonal, or permanent ban in affected areas. Pursuant to the ESA, if a species is listed as threatened or endangered, restrictions may be imposed on activities adversely affecting that species habitat. We may conduct operations under oil and natural gas leases in areas where certain species that are listed as threatened or endangered are known to exist and where other species that potentially could be listed as threatened or endangered under the ESA may exist. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of a threatened or endangered species. A critical habitat or suitable habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to land use and may materially delay or prohibit land access for oil and natural gas development. Similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. The identification or designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where underlying property operations are conducted could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on our exploration and production activities that could have an adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce reserves. If we were to have a portion of our leases designated as critical or suitable habitat, it could adversely impact the value of our leases. OSHA . We are subject to the requirements of the OSHA and comparable state statutes whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard, the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act and comparable state statutes and regulations require that we organize and or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local governmental authorities and citizens. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety. State Laws . There are numerous state laws and regulations in the states where we operate that relate to the environmental aspects of our business. Some of those laws and regulations are discussed above. They relate to, among other things, requirements to remediate spills of deleterious substances associated with oil and gas activities, the conduct of salt water disposal operations, and the methods of plugging and abandonment of oil and gas wells which have been unproductive. Numerous state laws and regulations also relate to air and water quality. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all state laws governing environmental matters and all permitting requirements; however, in the event that we fail to comply with such laws, we may face substantial penalties and incur significant costs. 17 Natural Gas Sales and Transportation Historically, federal legislation and regulatory controls have affected the price of the natural gas we produce and the manner in which we market our production. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, has jurisdiction over the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce by natural gas companies. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has substantial enforcement authority to prohibit the manipulation of natural gas markets and enforce its rules and orders, including the ability to assess substantial civil penalties. FERC also regulates interstate natural gas transportation rates and service conditions and establishes the terms under which we may use interstate natural gas pipeline capacity, which affects the marketing of natural gas that we produce, as well as the revenues we receive for sales of our natural gas and release of our natural gas pipeline capacity. FERC has also promulgated a series of orders, regulations and rules to foster competition in the business of transporting and marketing gas. Today, interstate pipeline companies are required to provide nondiscriminatory transportation services to producers, marketers and other shippers, regardless of whether such shippers are affiliated with an interstate pipeline company. Under FERC current regulatory regime, transmission services are provided on an open access, non discriminatory basis at cost based rates or negotiated rates. Gathering service, which occurs upstream of jurisdictional transmission services, is regulated by the states onshore and in state waters. Although its policy is still in flux, FERC has in the past reclassified certain jurisdictional transmission facilities as non jurisdictional gathering facilities, which has the tendency to increase our costs of transporting natural gas to point of sale locations. Additionally, we are required to comply with anti market manipulation laws and regulations promulgated by FERC and the Commodity Future Trading Commission with regard to our physical purchases and sales of energy commodities and any related hedging activities, and if we fail to comply, we could be subject to penalties and potential third party damage claims. Oil Sales and Transportation Sales of crude oil, condensate and NGLs are not currently regulated and are made at negotiated prices. Our crude oil sales are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The transportation of oil in common carrier pipelines is subject to rate regulation. FERC regulates interstate oil pipeline transportation rates under the Interstate Commerce Act and intrastate oil pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. The basis for intrastate oil pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate oil pipeline rates, varies from state to state. We believe that the regulation of oil transportation rates will not affect our operations in any materially different way than such regulation will affect the operations of our competitors, as effective interstate and intrastate rates are equally applicable to all comparable shippers. Further, interstate and intrastate common carrier oil pipelines must provide service on a non discriminatory basis. Under this open access standard, common carriers must offer service to all shippers requesting service on the same terms and under the same rates. When oil pipelines operate at full capacity, access is governed by pro rationing provisions set forth in the pipelines published tariffs. Accordingly, we believe that access to oil pipeline transportation services generally will be available to us to the same extent as to our competitors. Federal Income Tax and State Severance Taxes Federal income tax laws significantly affect our operations. The principal provisions that affect us are those that permit us, subject to certain limitations, to deduct as incurred, rather than to capitalize and amortize depreciate, our domestic intangible drilling and development costs and to claim depletion on a portion of our domestic oil and natural gas properties based on 15% of our oil and natural gas gross income from such properties (up to an aggregate of 1,000 barrels per day of domestic crude oil and or equivalent units of domestic natural gas). Additionally, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, natural gas and NGLs within its jurisdiction. Texas and New Mexico currently impose a severance tax on oil production of 4.60% and 8.39%, respectively, and a severance tax on natural gas production of 7.50% and 9.24%, respectively. 18 Federal Leases Operations on federal oil and natural gas leases must comply with certain regulatory restrictions, including various non discrimination statutes, and certain of such operations must be conducted pursuant to certain on site security regulations and other permits issued by federal agencies. In addition, on federal lands in the United States, the Office of Natural Resources Revenue ( ONRR ) prescribes, and in some cases limits, the types of costs that are deductible transportation costs for purposes of royalty valuation of production sold off the lease, including the deduction of costs associated with marketer fees, cash out and other pipeline imbalance penalties, or long term storage fees. The ONRR has also been engaged in a process of promulgating new rules and procedures for determining the value of crude oil produced from federal lands for purposes of calculating royalties owed to the government. We cannot predict what, if any, effect any new rule will have on our operations. Some of our operations are conducted on federal lands pursuant to oil and gas leases administered by the Bureau of Land Management, or BLM. These leases contain relatively standardized terms and require compliance with detailed regulations and orders, which are subject to change. In addition to permits required from other regulatory agencies, lessees must obtain a permit from the BLM before drilling and comply with regulations governing, among other things, engineering and construction specifications for production facilities, safety procedures, the valuation of production and payment of royalties, the removal of facilities, and the posting of bonds to ensure that lessee obligations are met. Under certain circumstances, the BLM may require our operations on federal leases to be suspended or terminated. Other Laws and Regulations Various laws and regulations require permits for drilling wells and also cover spacing of wells, the prevention of waste of natural gas and oil, rates of production and other matters. The effect of these laws and regulations, as well as other regulations that could be promulgated in the jurisdictions in which we have production, could be to limit the number of wells that could be drilled on our properties and to limit the allowable production from the successful wells completed on our properties, thereby limiting our revenues. Seasonal Nature of Business Generally, the demand for oil and natural gas fluctuates depending on the time of year. Generally, demand for oil increases during the summer months and decreases during the winter months while natural gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. Seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers may sometimes lessen this fluctuation. Further, pipelines, utilities, local distribution companies, and industrial end users utilize oil and natural gas storage facilities and purchase some of their anticipated winter requirements during the summer, which can also lessen seasonal demand. Operational Hazards and Insurance The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including the risk of fire, explosions, blow outs, hydrogen sulfide emissions or releases, pipe failures and, in some cases, abnormally high pressure formations which could lead to environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks and the discharge of toxic gases. If any of these should occur, we could be required to pay amounts due to injury; loss of life; damage or destruction to property, natural resources and equipment; pollution or environmental damage; regulatory investigation; and penalties and suspension of operations. In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the operating risks to which our business is exposed. We evaluate the purchase of insurance, coverage limits and deductibles on an annual basis. Current Employees As of December 31, 2018, we had 39 employees, all of whom were full time employees, and we intend to continue to add personnel as our operational requirements grow. Our employees are not represented by any labor union or covered by any collective bargaining agreements. We also retain certain independent consultants and contractors to provide various professional services, including additional land, legal, engineering, geology, environmental and tax services on a contract or fee basis as necessary for our operations. 19 Principal Executive Office and Corporate Offices Our principal executive offices are in leased office space located at 1800 Bering Drive, Suite 510, Houston, Texas 77057, and our teleph1 number is (817) 585 9001 We also maintain offices in leased office space in Fort Worth, Texas and San Antonio, Texas. Availability of Company Reports Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934 will be available through our Internet website at https www.lilisenergy.com as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report and should not be considered part of this Annual Report. Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our shares of common stock involves significant risks, including the potential loss of all or part of your investment. These risks could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. You should carefully consider all of the risks described in this Annual Report, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, before you make an investment in our common stock. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward looking statement. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors include the following Risks Relating to Our Business If we are unable to access additional capital, it could negatively impact our production, our income and ultimately our ability to retain our leases. Our principal sources of liquidity historically have been equity contributions, borrowings under our credit facilities, net cash provided by operating activities, and net proceeds from the issuance of preferred stock. Our capital program may require additional financing above the level of cash generated by our operations to fund our growth. If our expected cash flow from operations decreases as a result of lower commodity prices or otherwise, our ability to expend the capital necessary to replace our proved reserves, maintain our leasehold acreage or maintain production may be limited, resulting in decreased production and proved reserves over time. We plan to finance our capital expenditures with cash on hand, cash flow from operations and future issuances of debt and or equity securities. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of factors, including our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves; the amount of oil and natural gas we produce from existing wells; the prices at which we sell our production; the costs of developing and producing our oil and natural gas reserves; our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; the ability and willingness of banks to lend to us; and our ability to access the equity and debt capital markets. Our operations and capital resources may not provide cash in sufficient funds to maintain planned or future levels of capital expenditures. Further, our actual capital expenditures in 2019 could exceed our capital expenditure budget. In the event our capital expenditure requirements at any time are greater than the amount of capital we have available, we could be required to seek additional sources of capital, which may include refinancing existing debt, joint venture partnerships, production payment financings, offerings of debt or equity securities or other means. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices are highly volatile. If commodity prices experience substantial decline, our operations, financial condition, and level of expenditures for the development of our oil, natural gas and NGL reserves may be materially and adversely affected. 20 The prices we receive for our oil, natural gas, and NGL production heavily influence our revenue, operating results, profitability, access to capital, future rate of growth and carrying value of our properties. Oil, natural gas, and NGLs are commodities, and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the commodities markets have been volatile, and these markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. If the prices of oil, natural gas and NGLs experience a substantial decline, our operations, financial condition and level of expenditures for the development of our oil, natural gas and NGL reserves may be materially and adversely affected. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; political conditions, including embargoes, affecting oil producing activity; the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; weather conditions; technological advances affecting energy consumption; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. Our revenues, operating results, profitability and future rate of growth depend primarily upon the prices we receive for oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas that we sell. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow m1y or raise additional capital. In addition, we may be required to record asset carrying value write downs if prices fall. A significant decline in the prices of natural gas or oil could adversely affect our financial position, financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to grow. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness. We entered into the Second Lien Credit Agreement in 2017 and the Revolving Credit Agreement in 2018 (hereinafter defined and described in more detail). As of December 31, 2018, $75.0 million was outstanding under our Revolving Credit Agreement and $1116 million was outstanding under our Second Lien Credit Agreement. We may incur additional debt, including secured indebtedness, or issue preferred stock in order to maintain adequate liquidity and develop and acquire properties to the extent desired. If we further utilize our credit facilities in the future or obtain additional financing, our level of indebtedness could affect our operations, including limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes. Additionally, if we increase our indebtedness, the debt service requirements of the additional indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; and a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations would be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and would not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities. A higher level of indebtedness and or preferred stock also increases the risk that we may default on our obligations. The UK Financial Conduct Authority, or FCA, which regulates LIBOR, stated on July 27, 2017, that following 2021 it will no longer encourage panel banks to contribute to LIBOR, as it has d1 to date. Borrowings under our Revolving Credit Agreement bear interest at a floating rate of either LIBOR or a specified base rate plus a margin determined based upon the usage of the borrowing base. In the event LIBOR becomes unavailable prior to the maturity of our Revolving Credit Agreement, the rate of interest payable on our Revolving Credit Agreement may change. Uncertainty regarding the future of or changes to LIBOR or the unavailability of LIBOR could adversely affect our financial condition. The Revolving Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement, guaranteed and further secured by substantially all our assets, contain restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to respond to changes in market conditions or pursue business opportunities. Our Revolving Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things incur additional indebtedness; create additional liens; 21 incur fundamental changes; sell certain of our assets; merge or consolidate with another entity; pay dividends or make other distributions; engage in transactions with affiliates; and enter into certain swap agreements. The requirement that we comply with these provisions may have a material adverse effect on our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures or withstand a continuing or future downturn in our business. We may from time to time enter into alternative or additional debt agreements that contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, require us to sell assets or take other actions to reduce indebtedness to meet such covenants, or make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. In addition, our Revolving Credit Agreement requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. We may from time to time be out of compliance with covenants under our debt agreements, which will require us to seek waivers from our lenders. In connection with the preparation of this Form 10 K and the associated financial statements, the Company became aware, and promptly informed its Lenders, that it did not satisfy the leverage ratio covenant in the Revolving Credit Agreement, as of the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2018. Accordingly, the Company requested that the Lenders consent to a waiver with respect to such provision. On March 1, 2019, the Company entered into that certain First Amendment and Waiver to Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, whereby the Lenders granted a waiver with respect to the breach of the leverage ratio covenant. If we fail to comply with these provisions or other financial and operating covenants in the Revolving Credit Agreement, we could be in default under the terms of the agreement. In the event of such default, our lenders could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with the accrued and unpaid interest, and the lenders under or Revolving Credit Agreement could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder. V rde Partners, Inc., its portfolio companies, and its affiliates (collectively, V rde ) beneficially own a significant portion of our common stock. V rde is not limited in their ability to compete with us, and the waiver of the corporate opportunity provisions in the certificates of designation relating to our Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock may allow V rde to benefit from corporate opportunities that might otherwise be available to us. As a result, conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us and V rde concerning conflicts over our operations or business opportunities. V rde is a family of private investment funds that beneficially owns a significant portion of our common stock as a result of the conversion rights available to them under the Second Lien Credit Agreement, the Series C Preferred Stock (as hereinafter defined and described) and the Series D Preferred Stock (as hereinafter defined and described). V rde also has investments in other companies in the energy industry. The certificates of designation governing the preferences, rights and limitations of the Series C Preferred Stock and the Series D Preferred Stock provide that V rde is not restricted from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In particular, subject to the limitations of applicable law, if V rde, or any agent, shareholder, member, partner, director, officer, employee, investment manager or investment advisor of V rde who is also 1 of our directors or officers, becomes aware of a potential business opportunity, transaction or other matter, they will have no duty to communicate or offer that opportunity to us. As such, V rde may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities (such as acquisition opportunities) and may direct such opportunities to other businesses in which they have invested, in which case those opportunities may not be available to us or may be more expensive for us to pursue. Additionally, any actual or perceived conflicts of interest with respect to the foregoing could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. As of March 5, 2019, we converted our outstanding Second Lien Loans under our Second Lien Credit Agreement to a combination of 2 newly created series of preferred stock, Series E convertible preferred stock ("Series E Preferred Stock") and Series F non convertible preferred stock ("Series F Preferred Stock"), and common stock and eliminated the conversion features and voting rights on our existing Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock, reducing potential dilution of our common stockholders. Our Series E Preferred Stock is convertible and, if converted, could result in dilution to our common stockholders. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting may not detect errors or potential acts of fraud. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls may not prevent all possible errors and fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control 22 system are being met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls are evaluated relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of our controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Because of inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur without detection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement Section 404, our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, we are required to conduct an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on framework of internal control issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ). Because of its inherent limitations, internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. In addition, projections of any evaluation effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. Further, the complexities of our quarter end and year end closing processes increase the risk that a weakness in internal controls over financial reporting may go undetected. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. If we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC and the NYSE American, including a delisting from the NYSE American, securities litigation, debt rating agency downgrades or rating withdrawals, any 1 of which could adversely affect the valuation of our common stock and could adversely affect our business prospects. Decreases in oil and natural gas prices may require us to take write downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties, potentially requiring earlier than anticipated debt repayment and negatively impacting the trading value of our securities. Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment through the performance of a ceiling test. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. We perform the ceiling test at least quarterly and, in the event capitalized costs of the full cost pool exceed this ceiling, we would recognize an impairment expense. We did not incur an impairment expense for the year ended December 31, 2018. We recognized an impairment expense of approximately $10.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. Future write downs could occur for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, continued reductions in oil and natural gas prices that lower the estimate of future net revenues from proved oil and natural gas reserves, revisions to reserve estimates, or from the addition of non productive capitalized costs to the full cost pool that do not result in a corresponding increase in oil and natural gas reserves. Impairments of plugging and abandonment of wells in progress are other areas where costs may be capitalized into the full cost pool, without any corresponding increase in reserve values. As such, these situations could result in additional impairment expenses in the future. Impairment charges would not affect cash flow from operating activities but could have a material adverse effect on our net income and stockholders equity. 23 Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In order to prepare estimates, we must project production rates and the timing of development expenditures and analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Although the reserve information contained herein is reviewed by independent reserve engineers, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Further, the present value of future net cash flows from proved reserves may not be the current market value of estimated oil and natural gas reserves. If our reserve estimates or the underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, it could have a negative impact on our earnings and net income, as well as the trading price of our securities. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or result in losses . In order to comply with the requirements of our Revolving Credit Agreement and to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas, we have entered into derivative contracts that economically hedge our oil and gas price on a portion of our production. These contracts may limit our potential gains if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the contract. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and actual prices received; our production and or sales of oil or natural gas are less than expected; payments owed under derivative hedging contracts come due prior to receipt of the hedged month production revenue; or the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations. Hedging transactions that we have entered into, or may enter into in the future, may not adequately protect us from declines in the prices of oil and natural gas. In addition, the counterparties under our current or future derivatives contracts may fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled over a period of several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of our drilling. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of future multi year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These scheduled drilling locations represent a significant comp1nt of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability of capital, costs, drilling results, and regulatory approvals. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the potential drilling locations previously identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from our potential drilling locations. As such, actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas is a speculative activity and involves numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs that could adversely affect us. Our success will depend on the success of our drilling program. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities as such studies are merely an interpretive tool. Drilling for oil and natural gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs will be discovered. The cost of drilling, completing, and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including 24 unexpected or adverse drilling conditions; elevated pressure or irregularities in geologic formations; equipment failures or accidents; adverse weather conditions; compliance with governmental requirements; and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs, crews, and equipment. Additionally, the budgeted costs of planning, drilling, completing and operating wells are often exceeded and such costs can increase significantly due to various complications that may arise during the drilling and operating processes. If actual drilling and development costs are significantly more than the current estimated costs, we may not be able to continue operations as proposed and could be forced to modify our drilling plans. A productive well may become uneconomical if water or other deleterious substances are encountered which impair or prevent the production of oil and or natural gas from the well. Unsuccessful drilling activities could result in a significant decline in production and revenues and materially affect our operations and financial condition by reducing available cash and resources. Financial difficulties encountered by our oil and natural gas purchasers, third party operators or other third parties could decrease cash flow from operations and adversely affect our exploration and development activities. We derive essentially all of our revenues from the sale of our oil, natural gas and NGLs to unaffiliated third party purchasers, independent marketing companies and midstream companies. Any delays in payments from such purchasers caused by their financial problems will have an immediate negative effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, liquidity and cash flow problems encountered by our working interest co owners or the third party operators of our non operated properties may prevent or delay the drilling of a well or the development of a project. Our working interest co owners may be unwilling or unable to pay their share of the costs of projects as they become due. In the case of a working interest owner, we could be required to pay the working interest owner share of the project costs. Our industry is highly competitive, which may adversely affect our operations and performance. We operate in a highly competitive environment. In addition to capital, the principle resources necessary for the exploration and production of oil and natural gas include leasehold prospects under which oil and natural gas reserves may be discovered; drilling rigs and related equipment to explore for such reserves; and knowledgeable personnel to conduct all phases of oil and natural gas operations. We must compete for such resources with both major oil and natural gas companies and independent operators. Many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. The capital, materials and resources needed for our operations may not be available when needed. If we are unable to access capital, material and resources when needed, we may face various consequences, including the breach of our obligations under our oil and natural gas leases and the potential loss of those leasehold interests; damage to our reputation in the oil and gas community; inability to retain personnel or attract capital; a slowdown in our operations and decline in revenue; and a decline in the market price of our common stock. Properties that we acquire may not produce oil or natural gas as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them, which could cause us to incur losses. 1 of our growth strategies is to pursue selective acquisitions of undeveloped acreage potentially containing oil and natural gas reserves. If we choose to pursue an acquisition, we will perform a review of the target properties. However, these reviews are inherently incomplete as they are based on the quality, availability and interpretation of the reviewed data and the acumen and the assumptions of the evaluation personnel. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property, well, facility and or file involved in an acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. We may not perform an inspection on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, we may not be able to obtain effective contractual protection against all or part of those problems, and we may assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with the acquired properties. If we acquire properties with risks or liabilities that were unknown or not assessed correctly, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected as claims are settled and cleanup costs related to the liabilities are incurred. 25 We may incur losses or costs as a result of title deficiencies in the properties in which we invest. Prior to the drilling of an oil and natural gas well, it is customary practice in the oil and natural gas industry for the operator of the well to obtain a preliminary title review of the spacing unit within which the proposed oil and natural gas well is to be drilled to ensure there are no obvious deficiencies in title to the well. Frequently, as a result of such examinations, certain curative work must be d1 to correct deficiencies in the marketability of the title, and such curative work entails expense. Failure to cure any title defects may adversely impact our ability in the future to increase production and reserves. In the future, we may suffer a m1tary loss from title defects or title failure. Additionally, unproved and unevaluated acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest or acquire, we will suffer a financial loss which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our producing properties are all located in the Delaware Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in 1 major geographic area. As of December 31, 2018, all of our estimated proved reserves were located in the Delaware Basin in Winkler, Loving, and Reeves Counties, Texas and Lea County, New Mexico. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production, availability of equipment, facilities, personnel or services, governmental regulation, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, plant closures for scheduled maintenance or interruption of transportation of oil or natural gas produced from the wells in this area. In addition, the effect of fluctuations on supply and demand may become more pronounced within specific geographic oil and natural gas producing areas, which may cause these conditions to occur with greater frequency or magnify the effect of these conditions. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties. Such delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be the operator on all of our drilling locations, and, therefore, we will not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non operated assets. Currently, we are the operator of approximately 99% of our acreage. As we carry out our exploration and development programs, we may enter into arrangements with respect to existing or future drilling locations that result in wells being operated by others. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of the drilling locations operated by our partners. Dependence on the operator could prevent us from realizing target returns for those locations. The success and timing of exploration and development activities operated by our partners will depend on a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. The marketability of our production is dependent upon transportation and processing facilities and third parties over which or whom we may have no control. The marketability of our production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems, rail service, and processing facilities in addition to competing oil and natural gas production available to third party purchasers. We deliver our produced crude oil and natural gas through trucking, gathering systems and pipelines. The lack of availability of capacity on third party systems and facilities could reduce the price offered for our production or result in the shut in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of our development plans. Although we have contractual control over the transportation of our production through firm transportation arrangements, third party systems and facilities may be temporarily unavailable due to market conditions, mechanical issues, adverse weather conditions, work loads, or other reasons outside of our control. Additionally, if our natural gas contains levels of hydrogen sulfide that require treatment prior to transportation, it could cause delays in the transportation and marketing of our production. Any significant changes affecting these infrastructure systems and facilities, as well as any delays in constructing new infrastructure systems and facilities, could delay our production, which could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. 26 The shut in of our wells could negatively impact our production, liquidity, and, ultimately, our operations, results, and performance. Our production depends, in part, upon our wells that are capable of commercial production not being shut in (i.e., suspended from production). The lack of availability of capacity on third party systems and facilities or the shut in of an oil field production could result in the shut in of our wells. As of December 31, 2018, we had 3 gross (260 net) wells shut in. The producing wells in which we have an interest occasionally experience reduced or terminated production. These curtailments can result from mechanical failures, contract terms, pipeline and processing plant interruptions, market conditions, operator priorities, and weather conditions. These curtailments can last from a few days to many months, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If we experience low oil production volumes due to the shut in of our wells or other mechanical failures or interruptions, it would impact our ability to generate cash flows from operations and we could experience a reduction in our available liquidity. A decrease in our liquidity could adversely affect our ability to meet our anticipated working capital, debt service, and other liquidity needs. Unless we find new oil and natural gas reserves to replace our actual production, our reserves and production will decline, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates and depletion that vary depending upon various factors, including reservoir characteristics and subsurface and surface pressures. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and revenue are highly dependent on our success in efficiently obtaining additional reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire reserves to replace our current and future production at costs or other terms acceptable to us, or at all, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The results of our planned exploratory and development drilling are subject to drilling and completion execution risks, and drilling results may not meet our economic expectations for reserves or production. Unconventional operations involve utilizing drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers. Risks that we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, not reaching the desired objective due to drilling problems, not landing our wellbore in the desired drilling z1 or specific target, not staying in the desired drilling z1 while drilling horizontally through the formation, not running our casing the entire length of the wellbore and not being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, insufficient mechanical integrity, not being able to hydraulic fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, not being able to run tools the entire length of the wellbore, improper design and engineering for the reservoir parameters, and unsuccessfully cleaning out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. The success of our drilling and completion techniques can only be developed over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems or otherwise, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate and we could incur material write downs of undeveloped properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment supplies, or personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans. The oil and gas industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there are shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs of and demand for rigs, equipment and supplies may increase substantially and their availability may be limited. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified personnel, including drilling rig crews, may rise as the number of rigs in service increases. If drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel are unavailable to us due to excessive costs or demand or otherwise, our ability to execute our exploration and development plans could be materially and adversely affected and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 27 Terrorist attacks aimed at energy operations could adversely affect our business. The continued threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other government action have led and may lead to further increased volatility in prices for oil and natural gas and could affect these commodity markets or the financial markets used by us. In addition, the U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets may be a future target of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected oil and natural gas operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack on our facilities, customer facilities, the infrastructure depended upon for transportation of products, and, in some cases, those of other energy companies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to the operating risks and hazards associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including fires, explosions and blowouts; negligence of personnel; inclement weather; equipment or pipeline failure; abnormally pressured formations; and environmental pollution. These events may result in substantial losses or costs to our Company, including losses and costs resulting from injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources or equipment; pollution or environmental damage; clean up responsibilities; regulatory investigations; penalties and or suspension of operations; or fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation relating to such events. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities. We do not carry business interruption insurance, and we cannot fully insure against pollution and environmental risks. We may elect not to carry certain types of insurance if our management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The impact of natural disasters or weather events in the areas where we operate has resulted in escalating insurance costs and less favorable coverage terms. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or underinsured events may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations, including the loss of our total investment in a particular prospect. A failure of technology systems, data breach or cyberattack could materially affect our operations . Our information technology systems may be vulnerable to security breaches, including those involving cyberattacks using viruses, worms or other destructive software, process breakdowns, phishing or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing. Such breaches could result in unauthorized access to information, including customer, employee, or other confidential data. We do not carry insurance against these risks, although we do invest in security technology, perform penetration tests, and design our business processes to attempt to mitigate the risk of such breaches. However, there can be no assurance that security breaches will not occur. Moreover, the development and maintenance of these measures requires continuous monitoring as technologies change and security measures evolve. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, cyber security threats and incidents, n1 of which has been material to us to date. However, a successful breach or attack could have a material negative impact on our operations or business reputation and subject us to consequences such as litigation and direct costs associated with incident response. Information technology solution failures, ne2rk disruptions, breaches of data security and cyberattacks could disrupt our operations by causing delays, impeding processing of transactions and reporting financial results, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer, employee or our information, or damage to our reputation. A system failure, data security breach or cyberattack could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In the past, we have experienced data security breaches resulting from unauthorized access to our e mail systems, which to date have not had a material impact on our business; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in the industry. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or competitive pressures may force us to implement those new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, other oil and natural gas companies may have greater financial, technical, and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and, in the future, may allow them to implement new technologies before we are in a position to do so. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures and implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If 1 or more of the technologies used now or in the future were to become obsolete or if we are unable to use the most advanced commercially available technology, the business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 28 We have limited management and staff and may be dependent upon partnering arrangements. As of December 31, 2018, we had 39 full time employees. We leverage the services of independent consultants and contractors to perform various professional services, including engineering, oil and natural gas well planning and supervision, and land, legal, environmental, accounting and tax services. We also pursue alliances with partners in the areas of geological and geophysical services and prospect generation, evaluation and prospect leasing. Our dependence on third party consultants and service providers creates a number of risks, including but not limited to, the possibility that such third parties may not be available to us as and when needed and the possibility that we may not be able to properly control the timing and quality of work conducted with respect to our projects. If we experience significant delays in obtaining the services of such third parties or poor performance by such parties, our results of operations and stock price could be materially adversely affected. Our business may suffer with the loss of key personnel or changes to our Board of Directors. We depend to a large extent on the services of certain key management personnel and other executive officers and key employees. These individuals have extensive experience and expertise in evaluating and analyzing producing oil and natural gas properties and drilling prospects, maximizing production from oil and natural gas properties, marketing oil and natural gas production and developing and executing financing and hedging strategies. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on operations. We do not maintain key man life insurance with respect to any of our employees. Our success will be dependent on our ability to continue to employ and retain skilled technical personnel. We have an active board of directors that meets several times throughout the year and is intimately involved in the business and the determination of various operational strategies. Members of our board of directors work closely with management to identify potential prospects, acquisitions and areas for further development. If any directors resign or become unable to continue in their present role, it may be difficult to find replacements with the same knowledge and experience and as a result, operations may be adversely affected. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions, and the integration of significant acquisitions may be difficult. Our business strategy is based on our ability to acquire additional reserves, oil and natural gas properties, prospects and leaseholds. Significant acquisitions and other strategic transactions may involve risks, including diversion of our management attention to evaluating, negotiating and integrating significant acquisitions and strategic transactions; challenge and cost of integrating acquired operations, information management and other technology systems and business cultures with those of ours while carrying on our ongoing business; difficulty associated with coordinating geographically separate organizations; challenge of attracting and retaining capable personnel associated with acquired operations; and failure to realize the full benefit that we expect in estimated proved reserves, production volume, cost savings from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated from an acquisition, or to realize these benefits within the expected time frame. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management and other staff may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to the integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management and staff are not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. We may face difficulties in securing and operating under authorizations and permits to drill, complete or operate our wells. The continued growth in oil and natural gas exploration in the United States has drawn intense scrutiny from environmental and community interest groups, regulatory agencies and other governmental entities. As a result, we may face significant opposition to, or increased regulation of, our operations, that may make it difficult or impossible to obtain permits and other needed authorizations to drill, complete or operate, which could result in operational delays or otherwise make oil and natural gas exploration more costly or difficult. 29 Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Water is an essential comp1nt of deep shale oil and natural gas production during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Historically, we have been able to purchase water from local land owners for use in our operations. However, Texas has endured severe drought conditions over the past several years. These drought conditions have led governmental authorities to restrict the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to protect local water supplies. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations from local sources, we may be unable to produce oil and natural gas economically, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Legislative and regulatory initiatives related to global warming and climate change could have an adverse effect on our operations and the demand for oil and natural gas. The EPA has determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, or GHGs, endanger public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA, under the Clean Air Act, has adopted and implemented regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce GHG emissions and almost 1 half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce GHG emissions, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these GHG cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and natural gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction goal. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could have an adverse effect on our business. Legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and or oil from dense subsurface rock formations, and we routinely implement hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our drilling and completion programs. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA, under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act ( SDWA ), has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Additionally, local government may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. If new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in our exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. In addition, a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. These types of studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms. Current water regulation relating to hydraulic fracturing, particularly water source and groundwater regulation, could result in increased operational costs, operating restrictions and delays. Hydraulic fracturing can require between 3 to five million gallons of water per horizontal well. We may face regulatory concerns in both the sourcing and the discharge of water used in hydraulic fracturing. 30 In order to source water from the local water supply for hydraulic fracturing we may need to pay premium rates and be subject to a lower priority if the local area becomes subject to water restrictions. We may also seek water from alternative providers supporting the hydraulic fracturing industry. If we have an insufficient water supply, we will be unable to engage in hydraulic fracturing until such supply is located. In addition, hydraulic fracturing results in water discharges that must be treated and disposed of in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. Environmental regulations governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing may increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, and all of which could have an adverse effect on operations and financial performance. Our ability to remove and dispose of water will affect production, and the cost of water treatment and disposal may affect profitability. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could also include restrictions on our ability to conduct hydraulic fracturing or disposal of produced water, drilling fluids and other substances associated with the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the exploration, production and sale of oil and natural gas. Future laws or regulations, any adverse change in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations or our failure to comply with existing legal requirements may result in substantial penalties and harm to our business and could affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to make large and unanticipated capital expenditures to comply with applicable laws and governmental regulations, including regulations governing land use restrictions; lease permit restrictions; drilling bonds and other financial responsibility in connection with operations, such as plugging and abandonment bonds; well spacing; unitization and pooling of properties; safety precautions; operational reporting; eminent domain and government takings; and taxation. Our operations could be significantly delayed or curtailed and our cost of operations could significantly increase as a result of future changes in federal, state or local laws, regulatory requirements or restrictions. We may incur substantial expenses, and potentially resulting liabilities, to ensure our operations are in compliance with environmental laws and regulations . Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations relating to the release and disposal of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations, among other things, require a permit to be obtained before drilling or facility mobilization and commissioning, or injection or disposal commences; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to reach and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general and on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination or if our operations met previous standards in the industry at the time they were performed. Risks Relating to Our Securities The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which may depress the market price of our securities and result in substantial losses to investors if they are unable to sell their securities at or above their purchase price. The market price of our securities may fluctuate substantially for the foreseeable future, primarily due to a number of factors, including our status as a company with a limited operating history and limited revenues to date, which may make risk averse investors more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the shares of a seas1d issuer in the event of negative news or lack of progress; announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our existing or future competitors; 31 the timing and development of our products; general and industry specific economic conditions; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; liquidity; actions by our stockholders; changes in our cash flow from operations or earnings estimates; changes in market valuations of similar companies; our capital commitments; the sale or attempted sale or a large amount of common stock into the market; and the loss of any of our key management personnel. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We may issue shares of our preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue 1 or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our stockholders. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock, in terms of dividends, liquidation rights and voting rights. We currently have 2 series of preferred stock issued and outstanding, which ranks senior to our common stock with respect to dividends and rights on the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, amongst other preferences and rights. There may be future dilution of our common stock. We have a significant amount of derivative securities outstanding, which upon exercise or conversion, would result in substantial dilution of our common stock. To the extent outstanding restricted stock units, warrants or options to purchase our common stock under our 2016 Omnibus Incentive Plan or our 2012 Equity Incentive Plan are exercised, the price vesting triggers under the performance shares granted to our executive officers are satisfied, or additional shares of restricted stock are issued to our employees, holders of our common stock will experience dilution. Furthermore, the sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in further dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the price of our outstanding securities to decline. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never paid dividends with respect to our common stock, and we do not expect to pay any dividends, in cash or otherwise, in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any earnings for use in our business. In addition, our credit facilities and preferred stock prohibit us from paying any dividends. In the future, we may agree to further restrictions. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the appreciation of their stock. Securities analysts may not initiate coverage of our shares or may issue negative reports, which may adversely affect the trading price of the shares. Securities analysts may not provide research reports on our Company. If securities analysts do not cover our Company, the lack of coverage may adversely affect the trading price of our shares. The trading market for our shares will rely in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us and our business. If 1 or more of the analysts who cover our Company downgrades our shares, the trading price of our shares may decline. If 1 or more of these analysts ceases to cover our Company, we could lose visibility in the market, which, in turn, could also cause the trading price of our shares to decline. Further, because of our small market capitalization, it may be difficult for us to attract securities analysts to cover our Company, which could significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our shares. Anti takeover effects of certain provisions of Nevada state law hinder a potential takeover of our Company. The existence of certain provisions under Nevada law could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Additionally, Nevada law imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 32 As a smaller reporting company, we are not required to provide disclosure pursuant to this Item. Item 3 Legal Proceedings
