CIK: 1449488
Company Name: CSI COMPRESSCO LP
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-03-04
Accession Number: 0001449488-19-000004


Item 1 Business. The financial statements presented in this annual report are the consolidated financial statements of CSI Compressco LP, a Delaware limited partnership and its subsidiaries. When the terms the Partnership, we, us or our are used in this document, those terms refer to CSI Compressco LP and its consolidated subsidiaries. We are a Delaware limited partnership formed in October 2008. Our corporate headquarters are located at 24955 Interstate 45 North, The Woodlands, Texas, 77380. Our ph1 number is 281 364 2244, and our website is accessed at www.csicompressco.com. Our common units are traded on the NASDAQ Exchange under the symbol CCLP. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct, Financial Code of Ethics, and Audit Committee Charter, as well as our Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, and all amendments to those reports are all available, free of charge, on our website at www.csicompressco.com as soon as practicable after we file the reports with the SEC. Information contained on or connected to our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10 K or incorporated into any other filings with the SEC. The documents referenced above are available in print at no cost to any unitholder who requests them from our Corporate Secretary. About CSI Compressco LP We are a provider of compression services and equipment for natural gas and oil production, gathering, transportation, processing, and storage. We sell standard and custom designed compressor packages, and provide aftermarket services and compressor package parts and comp1nts manufactured by third party suppliers. We provide these compression services and equipment to a broad base of natural gas and oil exploration and production, midstream, and transmission companies operating throughout many of the onshore producing regions of the United States, as well as in a number of foreign countries, including Mexico, Canada, and Argentina. We design and fabricate a majority of the compressor packages that we use to provide compression services or sell to customers. We are 1 of the largest service providers of natural gas compression services in the United States, utilizing our fleet of compressor packages that employs a full spectrum of low , medium , and high horsepower engines. Low horsepower compressor packages enhance production for dry gas wells and liquid loaded gas wells by deliquifying wells, lowering wellhead pressure, and increasing gas velocity. Our low horsepower compressor packages are also utilized in connection with oil and liquids production and in vapor recovery and casing gas system applications. Low to medium horsepower compressor packages are typically utilized in wellhead and natural gas gathering systems and other applications primarily in connection with natural gas and oil production. Our high horsepower compressor package offerings are typically utilized in natural gas production, natural gas gathering, centralized compression facilities and midstream applications. Our equipment sales business includes the fabrication and sale of standard compressor packages and custom designed compressor packages designed and fabricated primarily at our facility in Midland, Texas. We design and fabricate natural gas reciprocating and rotary compressor packages up to 2,500 horsepower for use in our service fleet and up to 8,000 horsepower for sale to our broadened customer base. The compressor packages that we fabricate are sold to customers for their use in various applications including gas gathering, gas lift, carbon dioxide injection, wellhead compression, gas storage, refrigeration plant compression, gas processing, pressure maintenance, pipeline transmission, vapor recovery, gas transmission, fuel gas boosters, and coal bed methane systems. Our aftermarket business provides a wide range of services to support the needs of customers who own compression equipment as well as the sale of compressor package parts and comp1nts manufactured by third party suppliers. These services include operations, maintenance, overhaul, and reconfiguration services and may be provided under turnkey engineering, procurement and construction contracts. Our aftermarket services are provided by our factory and internally trained technicians in most of the major oil and natural gas producing basins in the United States. 1 Our long term growth strategy includes expanding our existing businesses through internal growth and acquisitions both in the U.S. and in select foreign countries. Our operations are organized into a single business segment. See " Note N Segments" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for further information. For financial information regarding our revenues and total assets, see " Note O Geographic Information" contained in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. Certain of our domestic services are performed by our wholly owned subsidiary CSI Compressco Operating LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (our Operating LLC ), pursuant to contracts that our legal counsel has concluded generate qualifying income under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code ), or qualifying income. We do not pay U.S. federal income taxes on the portion of our business conducted by Operating LLC. CSI Compressco Sub Inc. and Compressor Systems, Inc. ("CSI"), which are also wholly owned subsidiaries of ours, conduct substantially all of our operations that our legal counsel has not concluded generate qualifying income, and pay U.S. federal income tax with respect to such operations. We strive to ensure that all new domestic compression contracts are entered into by our Operating LLC and generate qualifying income. We also pay state and local income taxes in certain states, and we incur income taxes related to our foreign operations. Through TETRA wholly owned subsidiary and our general partner, CSI Compressco GP Inc., TETRA manages and controls us. We rely on our general partner board of directors and executive officers to manage our operations and make decisions on our behalf. Our general partner is an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of TETRA. Unlike shareholders in a publicly traded corporation, our unitholders are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. All of our general partner directors are elected by TETRA. Our general partner does not receive any management fee in connection with its management of our business. However, our general partner is reimbursed for certain indirect and direct expenses, including compensation expenses, incurred on our behalf. In addition, our general partner receives distributions based on its limited and general partner interests and incentive distribution rights. As of December 31, 2018 , common units held by the public represent approximately a 65.0% ownership interest in us. Products and Services We are a provider of compression services and equipment for natural gas and oil production, gathering, transmission, processing, and storage. Natural gas compression is a mechanical process in which the pressure of a given volume of natural gas is increased to a higher pressure. It is essential to the production and movement of natural gas. Compression is typically required numerous times in the natural gas production and sales cycle, including (i) at the wellhead, (ii) throughout gathering and distribution systems, (iii) into and out of processing and storage facilities and (iv) in natural gas pipelines. Compression is also utilized for gas lift, an artificial lift technique for producing oil that has insufficient reservoir pressure. We fabricate and sell standard compressor packages and custom designed compressor packages. We also provide aftermarket compression services and sell compressor package parts and comp1nts manufactured by third party suppliers. Compression Services We utilize our fleet of compressor packages to provide a variety of compression services to our customers to meet their specific requirements. Our fleet includes approximately 5,700 compressor packages that provide approximately 11 million in aggregate horsepower, employing a wide spectrum of low , medium , and high horsepower engines. We fabricate our compressor packages primarily at our fabrication facility in Midland, Texas. The horsepower of our natural gas compressor package fleet as of December 31, 2018 is summarized in the following table Range of Horsepower Per Package Number of Packages Aggregate Horsepower % of Aggregate Horsepower Low horsepower (0 100) 3,752 175,951 15.5 % Medium horsepower (101 1,000) 1,587 443,901 39.1 % High horsepower (1,001 and over) 380 515,625 45.4 % Total 5,719 1,135,477 100.0 % 2 Low Horsepower (0 100 Horsepower) Compression Services. Our natural gas powered, low horsepower compressor packages include our GasJack compressor packages that are relatively compact and easy to transport to our customer well site. We utilize our electric powered, low horsepower VJack compressor packages to provide production enhancement services on wells where electric power is available. Our low horsepower packages allow us to perform wellhead compression, fluids separation, and optional gas metering services all from 1 skid, thereby providing services that otherwise would generally require the use of multiple, more costly pieces of equipment. We utilize our low horsepower compressor packages to provide production enhancement for dry gas wells and liquid loaded gas wells and backside auto injection systems ( BAIS ). BAIS monitors tubing pressure to redirect gas flow into the casing annulus as needed to help gas wells unload liquids that hinder production. We also utilize our low horsepower compressor packages to collect hydrocarbon vapors that are a by product of oil production and storage ( vapor recovery ) and to reduce casing pressure of pumping oil wells to enhance oil production ( casing gas systems ). Medium horsepower (101 1,000 Horsepower) Compression Services . O ur medium horsepower compressor packages are primarily utilized to move natural gas from the wellhead through the field gathering system by boosting the pressure of the natural gas flowing through the system. Additionally, these compressor packages are used to reinject natural gas into producing vertical and horizontal oil wells that have insufficient reservoir pressure, to help lift liquids to the surface ("gas lift operations"). Typically, these applications require medium horsepower compressor packages located at or near the wellhead. These compressor packages are also used to increase the efficiency of low capacity natural gas fields by providing a central compression point from which the natural gas can be further processed and transported. These compressor packages feature primarily 2 and 3 stage compressors powered by natural gas engines ranging from 101 to 1,000 horsepower and equipped with interstage cooling. High Horsepower (Over 1,000 Horsepower) Compression Services . Our high horsepower compressor packages are primarily utilized in midstream applications including natural gas gathering and centralized compression facilities. They move natural gas from individual wells or a group of wells to boost the pressure while being moved into a gathering pipeline that leads to various types of processing facilities. A significant number of these compressor packages in midstream applications also serve the dual purpose of gas lift operations by injecting a percentage of the compressed natural gas into producing oil wells. Our high horsepower compressor packages are also used in connection with the movement of natural gas from gathering systems to storage facilities or the end user. These compressor packages feature primarily 2 and 3 stage compressors powered by natural gas engines over 1,000 horsepower and equipped with interstage cooling. Other Related Services . In certain Latin America markets, we provide well monitoring and sand separation services in connection with our primary low horsepower compression services. Well monitoring services include a variety of services that monitor and optimize production from oil and gas wells. We utilize automated sand separators, which are high pressure vessels with automated valve operation functions, at the well to remove solids that would otherwise cause abrasive wear damage to compression and other equipment that is installed downstream and inhibit production from the well. Compression Services Contract Terms . Our compression services are primarily performed under service contracts using our low , medium , and high horsepower compressor packages. A significant portion of these compression services are provided under services contracts that our legal counsel has concluded will generate qualifying income that is not subject to U.S. federal income taxes. Under these services contracts, we are responsible for providing our services in accordance with the particular specifications of a job. As owner and operator, we are responsible for operating and maintaining the equipment we utilize to provide our services. Our low horsepower compression service contracts typically have an initial term of 1 month and, unless terminated by us or our customers with 30 days' notice, continue on a month to month basis thereafter. Our medium and high horsepower compression service contracts typically have an initial term of twelve months but can also range from six months to twenty four month initial terms as well. After the initial terms on our medium and high horsepower compression service contracts, typically customers will continue on a month to month basis or renew for additional extensions. We charge our customers a fixed monthly fee for the services provided under the services contracts. If the level of services we provide falls below certain contractually specified percentages, other than as a result of factors beyond our control, our customers are generally entitled to request limited credits against our service fees. To date, these credits have been insignificant as a percentage of revenue. We generally own the equipment we use to provide services to our customers, and we bear the risk of loss to this equipment to the extent not caused by (i) a breach of certain obligations of the customer, primarily involving 3 the service site and the fuel gas being supplied to us, or (ii) an uncontrolled well condition. Utilizing our proprietary, satellite telemetry based reporting system, which is included on most of our equipment, we remotely monitor, in real time, whether our services are being continuously provided at our domestic customer well sites. As owner of the equipment, we are obligated to pay ad valorem taxes levied on the equipment and related insurance expenses, and we do not seek reimbursement for such taxes and expenses from our service agreement customers. Equipment and Parts Sales We fabricate and sell natural gas compressor packages for various applications, including gas gathering, gas lift, carbon dioxide injection, wellhead compression, gas storage, refrigeration plant compression, gas processing, pressure maintenance, pipeline transmission, vapor recovery, pipeline station optimization, gas transmission, fuel gas boosters, and coal bed methane systems. Aftermarket Business Through our aftermarket operations, we provide a wide range of services to support the needs of customers who own compression equipment. The services provided are primarily operation, maintenance, overhaul and reconfiguration services, which may be provided under turnkey engineering, procurement and construction contracts. We also sell engine parts, compressor package parts and other parts manufactured by third parties that are utilized in natural gas compressor packages. We have factory and internally trained technicians in most of the major oil and natural gas producing basins in the United States to perform these services. Compressor Package Fabrication Facilities and Sources of Raw Materials At our fabrication facility in Midland, Texas, we design and fabricate natural gas reciprocating and rotary compressor packages up to 8,000 horsepower, including both standard field compression equipment meeting industry standards and specially engineered compression equipment designed for unique customer specifications. We internally fabricate skids, pressure vessels built to American Society of Mechanical Engineers code, and piping systems and integrate them with engines, compressors and other comp1nts obtained from third party suppliers. The compressor packages are used in our services business and they are sold to major and independent oil and natural gas exploration and production companies as well as midstream processing and transmission companies. We design, engineer, fabricate and market high quality gas compressor packages that have a superior reputation in the industry as evidenced by occasional sales to competitive fleets and to end users who have their own compressor package fabrication capabilities. A majority of the comp1nts we use to fabricate compressor packages are obtained from third party suppliers. These comp1nts represent a significant portion of the cost of the compressor packages. Some of the comp1nts used in the assembly of our compressor packages are obtained from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Typical contracts with these suppliers are for a period of twelve months. Should we experience a lack of availability of the comp1nts we use to fabricate our packages and systems, we believe that there are adequate, alternative suppliers and that any impact would not be severe, although short term disruptions could be material. We occasionally experience long lead times for comp1nts from suppliers and, therefore, at times make purchases in anticipation of future orders. Market Overview and Competition Our operations are significantly dependent upon the demand for, and production of, oil and natural gas in the various domestic and international markets in which we operate. Beginning in 2014 and continuing throughout most of 2016, reduced prices of oil and natural gas led to declines in our customers' capital expenditure levels in the domestic and international markets in which we operate. The decline in activity in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry resulted in reduced demand for our products and services compared to early 2014 levels. Despite recent volatility in oil and gas prices, we are seeing strong indicators of continued improving demand for our products and services. 4 Customers We provide services to a broad base of natural gas and oil exploration and production, midstream, pipeline transmission, and storage companies operating throughout many of the onshore producing regions of the United States. We also have operations in Latin America and certain other foreign regions. While most of our domestic services are performed throughout Texas, the San Juan Basin, the Rocky Mountain region, and the Mid Continent region of the United States, we also have a presence in other U.S. producing regions. We continue to seek opportunities to further expand our operations into other regions in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world. Our service contracts are generally terminable upon thirty days notice after the primary term has expired. Although we enter into short term contracts, many of our largest customers have been with us for over five years. Our most significant customer for the year ended December 31, 2018 was Targa Resources, which accounted for approximately 15% of our consolidated revenues for the year. Other significant customers include various major integrated oil companies, public and private independent exploration and production companies and midstream companies, n1 of which individually accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 . The loss of any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Competition The natural gas compression services and compressor package fabrication and sale businesses are highly competitive. We experience competition from companies that may be able to more quickly adapt to changes within our industry and changes in economic conditions as a whole, more readily take advantage of available opportunities, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Primary competition for our low horsepower compression services business comes from smaller local and regional companies that utilize packages consisting of a screw or reciprocating compressor with a separate engine driver. These local and regional competitors tend to compete with us on the basis of price, as opposed to our focus on providing production enhancement value to the customer. Competition for our medium and high horsepower compression services business comes primarily from large companies that may have greater financial resources than ours. Such competitors include ArchRock, Kodiak Gas Services, and USA Compression. Our competition in the standard compressor package fabrication and sale markets includes several large companies and a large number of small, regional fabricators, including some of those with whom we also compete for compression services, including Enerflex, Exterran and others. Our competition in the custom designed market usually consists of larger companies with the ability to provide integrated projects and product support after the sale, including some of the competitors noted above. The ability to fabricate these large custom designed packages at our facilities near the point of end use of many customers is often a competitive advantage. Many of our compression services competitors compete on the basis of price. We believe our pricing has proven to be competitive because of the significant increases in the value that results from use of our services, our customer service, trained field personnel, and the quality of the compressor packages we use to provide our services. Other Business Matters Marketing We utilize various marketing strategies to promote our services and compressor package products. Our account managers attempt to build close working relationships with our existing and potential customers to educate them about our services and products by scheduling personal visits, hosting and attending workshops, tradeshows and conferences, and participating in industry organizations. We sponsor and make presentations at industry events that are targeted to production managers, compression specialists and other decision makers. Our marketing representatives also use these marketing opportunities to promote our value added service initiatives, such as the use of our proprietary satellite telemetry based system, our wellsite optimization program and our call center. 5 Backlog Our equipment and parts sales business consists of the fabrication and sale of standard compressor packages and custom designed compressor packages. Our custom designed packages are typically greater in size and complexity than standard fabrication packages, requiring more labor, materials, and overhead resources. This business requires diligent planning of those resources and project and backlog management in order to meet the customer's desired delivery dates and performance criteria, and achieve fabrication efficiencies. As of December 31, 2018 , our equipment sales backlog was $105.2 million , compared to $47.5 million as of December 31, 2017 , all of which is expected to be recognized in the year ended December 31, 2019. During the year ended December 31, 2018 , we received cumulative orders of $188.2 million for new compressor packages. We also reached our highest backlog since 2014 and received the largest single order of new compressor equipment in our history, for approximately $67.0 million. Our new equipment sales backlog consists of firm customer orders for which a purchase or work order has been received, satisfactory credit or financing arrangements exist, and delivery has been scheduled. Our new equipment sales backlog is a measure of marketing effectiveness that allows us to plan future labor and raw material needs and measure our success in winning bids from our customers. Employees As of December 31, 2018 , our general partner and certain of our subsidiaries had approximately 750 full time employees who provide services to conduct our operations. Our general partner U.S. employees and our employees in Canada are not subject to collective bargaining agreements. Under our Omnibus Agreement with TETRA, certain employees of TETRA and its affiliates also provide services to our general partner, us and our subsidiaries, and we reimburse TETRA for these services. Our employees in Argentina and Mexico are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. The employees of TETRA who provide services to us in Argentina and Mexico are subject to numerous collective labor agreements. We believe that the various employers of these employees have good relations with these employees and we have not experienced work stoppages in the past. Proprietary Technology and Trademarks It is our practice to enter into confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, and third parties to whom we disclose our confidential and proprietary information. There can be no assurance, however, that these measures will prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our trade secrets and expertise or that others may not independently develop similar trade secrets or expertise. Our management believes, however, that it would require a substantial period of time and substantial resources to independently develop similar know how or technology. We sell various services and products under a variety of trademarks and service marks, some of which are registered in the United States. Health, Safety, and Environmental Affairs Regulations We believe that our service and sales operations and fabricating plants are in substantial compliance with all applicable U.S. and foreign health, safety, and environmental laws and regulations. We are committed to conducting all of our operations under the highest standards of safety and respect for the environment. However, risks of substantial costs and liabilities are inherent in certain of our operations and in the development and handling of certain products and equipment produced or used at our plants, well locations, and worksites. Because of these risks, there can be no assurance that significant costs and liabilities will not be incurred in the future. Changes in environmental and health and safety regulations could subject us to more rigorous standards. We cannot predict the extent to which our operations may be affected by future regulatory and enforcement policies. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to protection of human health and the environment. The primary environmental laws that impact our operations in the United States include the Clean Air Act ("CAA") and comparable state laws, and regulations thereunder, which regulate air emissions; 6 the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 (the "Clean Water Act") and comparable state laws, and regulations thereunder, which regulate the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters, including industrial wastewater discharges and storm water runoff; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or ( RCRA ), and comparable state laws, and regulations, thereunder, which regulate the management and disposal of solid and hazardous waste; and the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, or ( CERCLA ), and comparable state laws, and regulations thereunder, known more commonly as Superfund, which impose liability for the cleanup of releases of hazardous substances in the environment. Our operations in the United States are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act ("OSHA") and comparable state laws, and regulations thereunder, which regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. The CAA and implementing regulations and comparable state laws and regulations regulate emissions of air pollutants from various industrial sources and also impose various monitoring and reporting requirements, including requirements related to emissions from certain stationary engines. These laws and regulations impose limits on the levels of various substances that may be emitted into the atmosphere from our compressor packages and require us to meet more stringent air emission standards and install new emission control equipment on all of our engines built after July 1, 2008. In addition, the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") issued regulations in April 2012 that require the reduction of emissions of volatile organic compounds, air toxins, and methane, a greenhouse gas, at certain oil and gas operations. We are not currently aware of material impacts to our operations associated with these rules. The EPA has determined that greenhouse gases ("GHGs") present an endangerment to public health and the environment because, according to the EPA, they contribute to global warming and climate change. As a result, the EPA has begun to regulate certain sources of GHGs, including air emissions associated with oil and gas production particularly as they relate to the hydraulic fracturing of natural gas wells. In addition, the EPA has issued regulations requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from certain sources including onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities and onshore oil and gas processing, transmission, storage, and distribution facilities. Reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities is required on an annual basis. The EPA rules relating to emissions of GHGs from large stationary sources of emissions are currently subject to a number of legal challenges, but the federal courts have thus far declined to issue any injunctions to prevent the EPA or state environmental agencies from implementing the rules. Further, Congress has considered, and almost 1 half of the states have adopted, legislation that seeks to control or reduce emissions of GHGs from a wide range of sources. The Clean Water Act and implementing regulations and comparable state laws and regulations prohibit the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters without a permit and establish limits on the levels of pollutants contained in these discharges. In addition, the Clean Water Act and other comparable laws and regulations regulate storm water discharges associated with industrial activities depending on a facility primary standard industrial classification. Our facilities are in compliance with these requirements, as applicable. RCRA and implementing regulations and state laws and regulations address the management and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. These laws and regulations govern the generation, storage, treatment, transfer, and disposal of wastes including, but not limited to, used oil, antifreeze, filters, sludges, paint, solvents and sandblast materials. The EPA and various state agencies have limited the approved methods of disposal for these types of wastes. We believe we are in substantial compliance with all applicable requirements. CERCLA and comparable state laws and regulations impose strict, joint, and several liabilities without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on certain classes of persons that contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of a disposal site where a hazardous substance release occurred and any company that transported, disposed of, or arranged for the transport or disposal of such hazardous substances released at a site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be liable for the costs of remediating the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. We believe that we have properly disposed of all historical waste streams and we have no outstanding liability regarding any past waste handling or spill activities; however, there is always the possibility that future spills 7 and releases of petroleum hydrocarbons, wastes, or other regulated substances into the environment could cause us to become subject to remediation costs and liabilities under CERCLA, RCRA, or other environmental laws. The costs and liabilities associated with the future imposition of remedial obligations could have the potential for a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. We are subject to the requirements of OSHA and comparable state statutes. These laws and regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community right to know regulations under Title III of CERCLA, and similar state statutes require that we maintain and or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with these requirements and other applicable similar laws. Our compressor packages may be subject to additional regulatory requirements under the CAA. For example, regulations under the National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants ( NESHAPS ) provisions of the CAA require control of hazardous air pollutants from new and existing stationary reciprocal internal combustion engines. Our equipment is also subject to additional prescribed maintenance practices and catalyst installation may also be required. More recently, the EPA finalized rules that establish new air emission controls under the EPA's New Source Performance Standards ("NSPS") and NESHAPS for natural gas and natural gas liquids production, processing and transportation activities. These rules establish specific requirements associated with emissions from compressors and controllers at natural gas gathering and boosting stations. We design and fabricate our compressor packages to meet applicable customer and government regulatory health, safety, and environmental requirements. Our operations outside the United States are subject to foreign governmental laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety, and other regulated activities. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with existing foreign governmental laws and regulations. Related Party Agreements Under our Omnibus Agreement with TETRA, our general partner provides all personnel and services reasonably necessary to manage our operations and conduct our business other than in Mexico and Argentina and certain of TETRA Latin American subsidiaries provide personnel and services necessary for the conduct of certain of our Latin American business. In addition, under the Omnibus Agreement, TETRA provides corporate and general and administrative services requested by our general partner including certain legal, accounting and financial reporting, treasury, insurance administration, claims processing and risk management, health, safety and environmental, information technology, human resources, credit, payroll, internal audit and tax services. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, we reimburse our general partner and TETRA and its subsidiaries for services they provide to us. At various times, we and TETRA have agreed that our reimbursement for corporate general and administrative services performed by TETRA would be paid using common units rather than cash. We may sometimes refer herein to the personnel of our general partner and TETRA and its subsidiaries who provide services for the conduct of our business as our personnel or other similar references. Under the Omnibus Agreement, we or TETRA may, but neither of us is under any obligation to, perform for the other such production enhancement or other oilfield services on a subcontract basis as are needed or desired by the other, for such periods of time and in such amounts as may be mutually agreed upon by TETRA and our general partner. Any such services are required to be performed on terms that are (i) approved by the conflicts committee of our general partner board of directors, (ii) no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from non affiliated third parties, as determined by our general partner, or (iii) fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships between TETRA and us (including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us), as determined by our general partner. Under the Omnibus Agreement, we or TETRA may, but neither of us is under any obligation to, sell, lease, or like kind exchange to the other such production enhancement or other oilfield services equipment as is needed or desired, in such amounts, upon such conditions, and for such periods of time, as may be mutually agreed upon by TETRA and our general partner. Any such sales, leases, or like kind exchanges are required to be on terms that are (i) approved by the conflicts committee of our general partner board of directors, (ii) no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from non affiliated third parties, as determined by our general partner, or (iii) fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships between TETRA and us (including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us), as determined by our general partner. In addition, TETRA may purchase newly fabricated equipment from us at a negotiated price provided that such price may not be less than the sum of the total costs (other than any allocations of general and 8 administrative expenses) incurred by us in fabricating such equipment plus a fixed margin percentage thereof, and TETRA may purchase from us previously fabricated equipment for a price that is not less than the sum of the net book value of such equipment plus a fixed margin percentage thereof, unless otherwise approved by the conflicts committee of our general partner board of directors. The Omnibus Agreement, as amended in June 2014 to extend its term, will terminate (other than the indemnification obligations contained therein) upon the earlier to occur of a change of control of the general partner or TETRA or upon any party providing at least 180 days' prior written notice of termination. In addition to the Omnibus Agreement, we have entered into other operational agreements with TETRA. For a more comprehensive discussion of the Omnibus Agreement and other agreements we have entered into with TETRA, please see Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Certain Business Risks Although it is not possible to identify all of the risks we encounter, we have identified the following significant risk factors that could affect our actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from any such results that might be projected, forecasted, or estimated by us in this Annual Report. We depend on domestic and international demand for and production of oil and natural gas, and a reduction in this demand or production could adversely affect the demand or the prices we charge for our services, which could cause our revenue and cash available for distribution to our unitholders to decrease. Our operations are significantly dependent upon the demand for, and production of, oil and natural gas in the various domestic and international markets in which we operate. Oil and natural gas production rates are volatile and may be affected by, among other factors, prices for such commodities, market uncertainty, weather and availability of alternative energy sources. The reduction in oil and natural gas prices that began in 2014 and continued through 2015 and 2016 resulted in declining demand for certain of our products and services compared to 2014 levels. Although oil prices steadily rose during late 2017 and early 2018, they fell during late 2018, with 2018 West Texas Intermediate oil prices dropping from a high of $76.90 per barrel in October 2018 to a low of $4236 per barrel in December 2018. West Texas Intermediate price was $55.80 per barrel as of March 1, 2019 . U.S. natural gas prices have also been volatile over the past 3 years, with the Henry Hub price ranging from a low of $161 per million British thermal units ( MMBtu ) in March 2016 to a high of $4.93 per MMBtu in November 2018. The Henry Hub price for natural gas as of March 1, 2019 was $286 per MMBtu. Despite the downturn in oil prices during late 2018, demand for medium and high horsepower compression services and equipment remains strong compared to 2 years ago. Demand for low horsepower compression services used for natural gas production enhancement has begun to increase slightly, but remains challenged. If oil and natural gas prices decline and remain low in the future, this may negatively impact the operating cash flows and exploration and development activities and plans of many of our customers and have a negative impact on the demand for our compression products and services. Factors impacting the prices of oil and natural gas include (i) the levels of supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; (ii) governmental regulations, including the policies of governments regarding the exploration for and production and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; (iii) weather conditions and natural disasters; (iv) worldwide political, military, and economic conditions; (v) the ability and willingness of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC") to set and maintain oil production levels; (vi) the levels of oil production by non OPEC countries; (vii) oil refining capacity and shifts in end customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas; (viii) the cost of producing and delivering oil and natural gas; and (ix) the cost and availability of alternative sources of energy. Our current capital structure, along with current debt and equity market conditions, may continue to limit our ability to obtain financing to pursue business growth opportunities . Current conditions in the markets for debt and equity securities in the energy sector have increased the difficulty of obtaining debt and equity financing to grow our business. As of December 31, 2018 , the market price for our common units was $232 per common unit, reflecting a steep decline during the fourth quarter of 2018 and 9 compared to a high of $8.05 per common unit during February 2018. As of March 1, 2019 , the price of our common units was $310 per common unit. The issuance of new convertible debt or equity securities (similar to the Series A Convertible Preferred Units that were issued in late 2016, (the "Preferred Units")) in the future, if available, could be significantly dilutive to current common unitholders. In addition, as of December 31, 2018 , we had approximately $645.9 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of our 7.25% Senior Notes and 7.50% Senior Secured Notes. Obtaining equity or debt financing in the current market environment is particularly difficult for us, given our current levels of long term debt. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 , our aggregate capital expenditures totaled $1035 million , which were primarily growth capital expenditures to increase our compression services equipment fleet, and the majority of these capital expenditures were funded through the issuance of the 7.50% Senior Secured Notes in 2018. As of December 31, 2018 , our total cash balance was $15.9 million . We anticipate capital expenditures in 2019 to range from $60.0 million to $65.0 million . These capital expenditures include approximately $18.0 million to $20.0 million of maintenance capital expenditures and approximately $420 to $45.0 million of capital expenditures primarily associated with the expansion of our compression services fleet. We expect that the combination of $15.9 million of cash on hand at the beginning of 2019 and operating cash flows expected to be generated during the year will be sufficient to fund these capital expenditures without having to incur additional long term debt and without having to access the equity markets. In addition to the anticipated 2019 expansion capital expenditures noted above that we intend to fund from cash on hand and from expected cash flow from operations, TETRA has agreed to purchase up to $15.0 million of compression equipment to be leased to us pursuant to agreements executed in February 2019. However, our ability to grow our business through capital expenditure or acquisition activities beyond these sources of financing may be significantly limited or curtailed. Without the ability to increase our compression equipment fleet or otherwise grow our operations, our ability to continue to retain customers whose compression services needs are expanding and to increase distributions to our common unitholders in the future may be limited. Our long term debt levels result in a significant amount of our operating cash flows being used to fund debt service requirements. In March 2018, we issued an aggregate $350.0 million of our 7.50% Senior Secured Notes, the proceeds of which were partially used to repay the remaining outstanding balance of $258.0 million under our previous bank credit facility, which was then terminated. The aggregate carrying value of our 7.50% Senior Secured Notes as of December 31, 2018 is $3432 million . The issuance of the 7.50% Senior Secured Notes increased our aggregate amount of long term debt outstanding as well as the aggregate interest rate of our debt outstanding. In addition, we have an aggregate carrying value of $289.8 million of our 7.25% Senior Notes outstanding as of December 31, 2018 . The increase in our total long term indebtedness has increased our total interest expense, which in turn reduces our cash available to fund capital expenditures or for distribution. Our ability to service our indebtedness in the future will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be impacted by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we may be forced to consider taking actions such as reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments and or capital expenditures, delaying any desired increase of distributions, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to take any of these courses of action. We may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of debt service and other contractual obligations, fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner, to enable us to increase cash distributions to our common unitholders following the conversion of the remaining outstanding Preferred Units . On December 20, 2018, we announced that, given our low common unit price, we were reducing our common unit distributions from $0.75 per unit per year (or $0.1875 per quarter) to $0.04 per unit per year (or $0.01 per quarter) for a period of up to four quarters, beginning with the February 2019 distribution. We noted that we intend to use the approximately $34 million of savings from the reduced distribution to redeem the remaining outstanding Preferred Units for cash and avoid the further dilution to our common unitholders that would occur if we continued to convert the Preferred Units into common units each month. The redemption of the Preferred Units is expected to be completed by the third quarter of 2019, at which time we intend to re evaluate the distribution policy based on business conditions at that time. 10 Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution is reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of cash reserves that our general partner establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements (including the redemption of our remaining Preferred Units in cash, if we so choose and are allowed under our debt agreements), and future cash distributions to our common unitholders. In order to make cash distributions at this current distribution rate of $0.01 per common unit per quarter, or $0.04 per common unit per year, we will require available cash of approximately $0.5 million per quarter, or $19 million per year, based on the number of common units outstanding as of March 1, 2019 . We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to enable us to increase cash distributions following the redemption of our remaining Preferred Units, or make any distribution at all. To the extent we issue additional partnership units in connection with our growth, the payment of distributions on those additional partnership units may further increase the risk that we will be unable to increase our per unit distribution. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or our Loan and Security Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") on our ability to issue additional common units. The amount of cash we can distribute to our common unitholders principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which fluctuates from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the market conditions described in these Risk Factors. Many of our operating expenses have been volatile and may continue to be volatile or increase in the future. To the extent our efforts to contain these costs are not successful, our generation of operating cash flows to fund or increase our quarterly distributions will be negatively impacted. Our long term debt agreements contain covenants and other provisions that restrict our ability to take certain actions and may limit our ability to grow our business in the future. Our Credit Agreement includes a maximum credit commitment of $50.0 million, which is available for loans, letters of credit (with a sublimit of $25.0 million), and swingline loans (with a sublimit of $5.0 million), subject to a borrowing base determined by reference to the value of certain of our accounts receivable. The maximum credit commitment may be increased by $25.0 million, subject to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains certain affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that restrict our ability to take certain actions including, among other things and subject to certain significant exceptions, incurring debt, granting liens, making investments, entering into or amending existing transactions with affiliates, paying dividends, and selling assets. The Credit Agreement also contains a provision that requires our compliance with a fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of not less than 10 to 10 in the event that certain conditions associated with outstanding borrowings and cash availability occur. In addition, the indentures governing our 7.50% Senior Secured Notes and our 7.25% Senior Notes contain customary covenants restricting our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to (i) pay distributions on, purchase, or redeem our common units, make certain investments and other restricted payments, or purchase or redeem any subordinated debt; (ii) incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain kinds of preferred equity securities; (iii) create or incur certain liens securing indebtedness; (iv) sell assets, including dispositions of the collateral securing our 7.50% Senior Secured Notes; (v) consolidate, merge, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; (vi) enter into transactions with affiliates; and (vii) enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us. These covenants are subject to a number of important limitations and exceptions, including certain provisions permitting us, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, to transfer assets to certain of our unrestricted subsidiaries. The indentures also contain customary events of default and acceleration provisions relating to events of default, which provide that upon an event of default under the indentures, the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding 7.50% Senior Secured Notes and 7.25% Senior Notes may declare all of the 7.50% Senior Secured Notes and 7.25% Senior Notes to be due and payable immediately. The loss of any of our most significant customers would result in a decline in our revenue and cash available to pay distributions to our common unitholders . Our five most significant customers collectively accounted for approximately 31% of our 2018 revenues. Our services and products are provided to these customers pursuant to equipment sales or short term contract compression services agreements, many of which are cancellable with 30 days' notice. The loss of all or even a portion of the services we provide to these customers, as a result of competition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 11 The credit and risk profile of TETRA could adversely affect our business and our ability to make distributions to our common unitholders . The credit and business risk profile of TETRA could adversely affect our ability to incur indebtedness in the future or obtain a credit rating, as credit rating agencies may consider the leverage and credit profile of TETRA and its affiliates in assigning a rating because of TETRA's control of us, their performance of administrative functions for us, and our contractual relationships with them. Furthermore, the trading price of our common units may be adversely affected by financial or operational difficulties or excessive debt levels at TETRA. If the pledge of TETRA's ownership of our general partner becomes effective in the future, control over our general partner could be transferred to TETRA lenders in the event of a default by TETRA. We may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of our contracts with our customers, which are generally cancellable on 30 days' notice, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our common unitholders . We generally provide compression services to our customers under evergreen contracts that are cancellable on thirty days notice. We may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of these contracts on favorable terms, if at all, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. We face competition that may cause us to lose market share and harm our financial performance . Our business is highly competitive. We face competition from a variety of large and small companies, including companies with greater financial resources than we have. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely impacted by the activities of our competitors. Our competitors could substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive equipment or services, develop more efficient equipment, or decrease the price at which they offer their equipment services or sell their equipment. Any of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and ability to make cash distributions to our common unitholders. We depend on particular suppliers and are vulnerable to engine and compressor comp1nt shortages and price increases, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. We fabricate most of our compressor packages. We obtain some of the comp1nts used in our compressor packages from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Significant suppliers of material comp1nts include Caterpillar, Inc. and Ariel Corporation for engines and compressor comp1nts, respectively. Our reliance on these and other suppliers involves several risks, including our potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required comp1nts in a timely manner. We do not have long term contracts with these sources and the partial or complete loss of certain of these sources could have a negative impact on our results of operations and could damage our customer relationships. Further, since any increase in comp1nt prices for compressor packages fabricated by us could decrease our margins, a significant increase in the price of 1 or more of these comp1nts could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. Operating cash flows from the sale of compressor packages are inconsistent. A significant portion of our revenues and cash flows is derived from the sales of compressor packages. During 2018 , we reported revenues of $137.9 million from the sale of compressor packages. As of December 31, 2018 , we had a compressor package sales order backlog of $105.2 million , compared to $47.5 million as of December 31, 2017 . Demand to purchase our compressor packages is affected by numerous factors, including the prices of natural gas and oil and the level of capital spending by our customers. A change in our business strategy or any of these factors could cause cash flows from the sale of compressor packages to decrease. 12 Our future growth and success depend upon a number of factors, some of which we cannot control. Our long term growth strategy includes both internal growth and growth through acquisitions. Our future internal growth and success will depend upon a number of factors that are outside of our control. These factors include our ability to attract new customers; maintain our existing customers and maintain or expand the level of services we provide to them; and recruit, train, and retain qualified field services and other personnel. Failure in any of these areas could adversely affect our ability to execute our internal growth strategy. We may be unable to grow successfully through future acquisitions and we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of and integrate the businesses we do acquire effectively, which may impact our operations and limit our ability to increase distributions to our common unitholders. From time to time, we may choose to make business acquisitions to pursue market opportunities, increase our existing capabilities, and expand into new areas of operations. We may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities or successfully acquire identified targets. If oil and natural gas prices worsen or do not improve, we may not achieve all of the expected benefits of or be successful in fully integrating any future acquisitions into our existing operations, which may result in unforeseen operational difficulties or diminished financial performance or require a disproportionate amount of attention from our general partner s personnel. Even if we are successful in fully integrating any future acquisitions into our existing operations, we may not derive the benefits, such as operational or administrative synergies, that we expect from such acquisitions, which may result in the commitment of our capital resources without the expected returns on such capital. Furthermore, competition for acquisition opportunities may escalate, increasing our cost of making acquisitions or causing us to refrain from making acquisitions. Our inability to make acquisitions or to achieve the expected results of and integrate successfully future acquisitions into our existing operations may impact our operations and limit our ability to increase distributions to our common unitholders. Our sales to and operations in foreign countries exposes us to additional risks and uncertainties, including with respect to U.S. trade and economic sanctions, export control laws, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ( FCPA ), and similar anti bribery laws. If we are not in compliance with applicable legal requirements, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and other remedial measures that could have a material impact on our business. We have operations in Mexico, Canada, and Argentina as well as a number of other foreign countries. A portion of our expected future growth includes expansion in these and other foreign countries. Foreign operations carry special risks. Our operations in the countries in which we currently operate and those countries in which we may operate in the future, could be adversely affected by government controls and actions, such as expropriation of assets and changes in legal and regulatory environments; import and export license requirements; political, social, or economic instability; trade restrictions; changes in tariffs and taxes; currency exposure; restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; and the impact of anti corruption laws. Sanctions imposed by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control ( OFAC ) prohibit our operations in or sales to customers in certain foreign countries. We are also subject to the FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and other similar laws governing our foreign operations. The FCPA foreign counterparts, including the UK Bribery Act, contain similar prohibitions, although varying in both scope and jurisdiction. We operate in parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption in the past. 13 We have policies and procedures to maintain our compliance with the FCPA, OFAC sanctions, export controls, and similar laws and regulations. The implementation of such policies and procedures may be time consuming and expensive, and could result in the discovery of issues or violations with respect to the foregoing by us or our employees, independent contractors, subcontractors, or agents of which we were previously unaware. If we violate any of these regulations, significant administrative, civil, and criminal penalties could be assessed on us. In addition, foreign governments and agencies often establish permit and regulatory standards different from those in the U.S. If we cannot obtain foreign regulatory approvals or cannot obtain them in a timely manner, our growth and profitability from international operations could be adversely affected. Escalating security disruptions in regions of Mexico served by us could adversely affect our Mexican operations, and, as a result, the levels of revenue and operating cash flow from our Mexican operations could be reduced . In recent years, incidents of security disruptions throughout many regions of Mexico have increased. Drug related gang activity has grown in Mexico. Certain incidents of violence have occurred in regions in which we operate and have resulted in the interruption of our operations, and these interruptions could increase in the future. To the extent that such security disruptions increase, the levels of revenue and operating cash flow from our Mexican operations could be reduced. Our operations in Argentina expose us to the changing economic, legal, and political environment in that country, including changing regulations governing the repatriation of cash generated from our operations in Argentina. The current economic, legal, and political environment in Argentina and recent devaluations of the Argentinian peso have created increased instability for foreign investment in Argentina. The Argentinian government is currently attempting to address the current high rate of inflation and the continuing currency devaluation pressure. Fiscal and m1tary expansion in Argentina has led to devaluations of the Argentinian peso. Additional devaluation may be necessary to help boost the current Argentina economy, and they may be accompanied by fiscal and m1tary tightening, including additional restrictions on the transfer of U.S. dollars out of Argentina. On June 30, 2018, we determined the economy in Argentina to be highly inflationary. As a result of this determination and in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( " GAAP"), on July 1, 2018, the functional currency of our operations in Argentina was changed from the Argentine peso to the U.S. dollar. The remeasurement did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. As a result of our operations in Argentina, consolidated revenues and operating cash flow generated in Argentina have increased over the past 3 years. As of December 31, 2018 , approximately $53,000 of our consolidated cash balance is located in bank accounts in Argentina, and the process of repatriating this cash to the U.S. is subject to increasingly complex regulations. There can be no assurances that our growing Argentinian operations will not expose us to the loss of liquidity, foreign exchange losses, and other potential financial impacts. Our ability to manage and grow our business effectively and provide quality services to our customers may be adversely affected if our general partner loses its management or is unable to retain trained personnel . We rely primarily on the executive officers and other senior management of our general partner to manage our operations and make decisions on our behalf. Our ability to provide quality compression services depends upon our general partner ability to hire, train, and retain an adequate number of trained personnel. The departure of any of our general partner executive officers or other senior management could have a significant negative effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. We operate in an industry characterized by highly competitive labor markets, and, similar to many of our competitors, we have experienced high employee turnover in certain regions. It is possible that our labor expenses could increase if there is a shortage in the supply of skilled regional service supervisors and other service professionals. Our general partner may be unable to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary for us to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. Failure to do so could impair our ability to operate efficiently and to retain current customers and attract prospective customers, which could cause our business to suffer materially. Additionally, increases in labor expenses may have an adverse impact on our operating results and may reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. 14 The employees conducting our operations in Mexico and Argentina are party to collective labor agreements, and a prolonged work stoppage of our operations in Mexico or Argentina could adversely impact our revenues, cash flows and net income . The personnel conducting our operations in Mexico are currently subject to collective labor agreements. These collective labor agreements consist of evergreen contracts that have no expiration date and whose terms remain in full force and effect from year to year, unless the parties agree to negotiate new terms. The employees subject to these evergreen agreements may, however, request a renegotiation of their employee compensation terms on an annual basis or a renegotiation of the entire agreement on a biannual basis, although we are not required to honor any such request. The personnel conducting operations in Argentina are also subject to collective labor agreements. We have not experienced work stoppages in Mexico or Argentina in the past, but cannot guarantee that we will not experience work stoppages in the future. A prolonged work stoppage could adversely impact our revenues, cash flows, and net income. TETRA and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us, which could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our common unitholders . Neither our partnership agreement nor the Omnibus Agreement between TETRA and us prohibits TETRA and its affiliates from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. TETRA has historically provided some services for PEMEX in Mexico in competition with us and could choose to further compete with us for additional services for PEMEX in Mexico. In addition, TETRA and its affiliates may acquire compression based services businesses or assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of that business or those assets. As a result, competition from TETRA could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations may result in fluctuations in our cash flows and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations . Because we have operations in Mexico, Canada and Argentina, and in certain other foreign countries, a portion of our business is conducted in foreign currencies. As a result, we are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If a foreign currency weakened significantly, we would be required to convert more of that foreign currency to U.S. dollars to satisfy our obligations, which would cause us to have less cash available for distribution. A significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar could result in an increase in our financing expenses and could materially affect our financial results under U.S. GAAP. Because we report our operating results in U.S. dollars, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar also result in fluctuations in our reported revenues and earnings. Most of our billings under the contracts with PEMEX and other clients in Mexico are in U.S. dollars; however, a large portion of our expenses and costs under those contracts are incurred in Mexican pesos. In addition, future contract awards with PEMEX may require us to bill a larger portion of our revenues in Mexican pesos, which would expose us to additional foreign currency exchange rate risks. As a result of the above, we are exposed to fluctuations in the values of the Mexican and Argentinian peso against the U.S. dollar. A material increase in the values of these foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would adversely affect our cash flows and net income. On June 30, 2018, we determined the economy in Argentina to be highly inflationary. As a result of this determination and in accordance with U.S. GAAP, on July 1, 2018, the functional currency of our operations in Argentina was changed from the Argentine peso to the U.S. dollar. In addition, for our operations in Canada, where the Canadian dollar is the functional currency under U.S. GAAP, all U.S. dollar denominated m1tary assets and liabilities, such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable, long term debt and capital lease obligations, are revalued and reported based on the prevailing exchange rate at the end of the reporting period. This revaluation may cause us to report significant foreign currency exchange gains and losses in certain periods. Further changes in the economic environment could result in further significant impairments of certain of our long lived assets. During 2015 and 2016, lower oil and natural gas prices resulted in a decreased demand for certain of our products and services. Demand for compression services and for new compressor packages decreased significantly, although recently we are seeing signs of increased demand, particularly for medium and high horsepower compression services and equipment. Decreased commodity prices had, and may continue to have, a 15 negative impact on oil and gas drilling and capital expenditure activity, which affects the demand for a portion of our products and services. During 2015 and 2016, primarily as a result of the significant decreases in oil and natural gas prices during these periods, we recorded certain consolidated long lived asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, of approximately $2420 million . Further changes in the economic environment could result in decreased demand for our products and services, which could impact the expected utilization rates of our compressor package fleet. Under U.S. GAAP, we review the carrying value of our long lived assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable, based on their expected future cash flows. The impact of reduced expected future cash flow could require the write down of all or a portion of the carrying value for these assets, which would result in additional impairments, resulting in decreased earnings. We are exposed to significant credit risks. We face credit risk associated with the significant amounts of accounts receivable we have with our customers in the energy industry. Many of our customers, particularly those associated with our low horsepower compression service operations, are small to medium sized oil and gas operators that may be more susceptible to fluctuating oil and gas commodity prices or generally increased operating expenses than larger companies. Our customers' ability to pay is impacted by a decreased oil and natural gas price environment. We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities . Our assets and operations are subject to inherent risks such as vehicle accidents, equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, as well as other incidents that result in releases or uncontrolled flows of gas or well fluids, fires, or explosions. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, death, property damage, pollution, and other environmental damages. On occasion, we have experienced fires that have damaged or destroyed certain of our compression fleet, and additional accidents or fires could occur in the future. We do not insure all of our assets and the insurance we do obtain may be inadequate to cover our liabilities. Further, insurance covering the risks we face or in the amounts we desire may not be available in the future, or, if available, the premiums may not be commercially feasible. If we were to incur substantial liability and such damages were not covered by insurance or were in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we did not maintain liability insurance, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, we do not maintain business interruption insurance. Please read Health, Safety, and Environmental Affairs Regulations for a description of how we are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to protection of human health and environment. We are subject to environmental regulations, and changes in these regulations could increase our costs or liabilities . We are subject to federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulatory standards, including laws and regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment, emission controls, and other environmental protection and occupational health and safety concerns. Environmental laws and regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict and joint and several liability for environmental contamination, rendering us liable for remediation costs, natural resource damages, and other damages resulting from our ownership of property or conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior owners or operators or other third parties. In addition, where contamination may be present, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury, property damage, and recovery of response costs. Remediation costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with new information, changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or the adoption of new environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, failure to comply with these environmental laws and regulations may result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, and the issuance of injunctions delaying or prohibiting operations. We routinely deal with natural gas, oil, and other petroleum products. Hydrocarbons or other hazardous wastes may have been released during our operations or by third parties on wellhead sites where we provide services or store our equipment or on or under other locations where wastes have been taken for disposal. These properties may be subject to investigatory, remediation, and monitoring requirements under foreign, federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. 16 The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the EPA ) has adopted regulations under the Clean Air Act to control emissions of hazardous air pollutants from reciprocal internal combustion engines and more recently the EPA adopted regulations that establish air emission controls for natural gas and natural gas liquids production, processing and transportation activities, including NSPS as well as emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants. Certain of our compressor packages are subject to these new requirements and additional control equipment and maintenance operations are required. While we do not believe that compliance with current regulatory requirements will have a material adverse effect on our business, additional regulations could impose new air permitting or pollution control requirements on our equipment that could require us to incur material costs. The modification or interpretation of existing environmental laws or regulations, the more vigorous enforcement of existing environmental laws or regulations, or the adoption of new environmental laws or regulations may also adversely affect oil and natural gas exploration and production, which in turn could have an adverse effect on us. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas our customers produce, while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt production and cause us to incur costs in preparing for or responding to those effects . The EPA has determined that GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment, because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. Such EPA rules regulate GHG emissions under the CAA and require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and from certain large stationary sources. The EPA rules also require so called green completions at hydraulically fractured natural gas wells beginning in 2015. In addition, the EPA requires the annual reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States, including petroleum refineries, as well as from certain oil and gas production facilities. In addition, in December 2015, over 190 countries, including the United States, reached an agreement to reduce global GHG emissions (the Paris Agreement ). The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016 after more than 170 nations, including the United States, ratified or otherwise indicated their intent to be bound by the Paris Agreement. However, in June 2017, President Trump announced that the United States intends to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and to seek negotiations either to reenter the Paris Agreement on different terms or a separate agreement. In August 2017, the U.S. Department of State officially informed the United Nations of the United States intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement provides for a four year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States adherence to the exit process and or the terms on which the United States may re enter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time. To the extent that the United States and other countries implement the Paris Agreement or impose other climate change regulations on the oil and natural gas industry, it could have an adverse effect on our business. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our facilities and operations could require us to incur costs. Further, Congress has considered and almost 1 half of the states have adopted legislation that seeks to control or reduce emissions of GHGs from a wide range of sources. Any such legislation could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas our customers produce and, in turn, demand for our products and services. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations and cause us to incur costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. 17 Regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing in the countries where we and our customers operate could result in operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and gas wells that may reduce demand for our services. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from dense subsurface rock formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand or other proppants and chemical additives under pressure into targeted geological formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state oil and gas commissions or similar state agencies, but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, the EPA asserted regulatory authority pursuant to the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, Underground Injection Control program over hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel and issued guidance covering such activities; published final rules under the federal CAA in 2012 and published additional final regulations in June 2016 governing methane and volatile organic compound performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during for the oil and natural gas hydraulic fracturing industry; published in June 2016 an effluent limitations guidelines final rule prohibiting the discharge of waste water from shale natural gas extraction operations before discharging to a treatment plant; and in 2014 published an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding Toxic Substances Control Act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. Also, the U.S. Bureau of Land Management ("BLM") published a final rule in March 2015 that established new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands. However, in June 2016, a Wyoming federal judge struck down this final rule, finding that the BLM lacked authority to promulgate the rule, the BLM appealed the decision to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit in July 2016, the appellate court issued a ruling in September 2017 to vacate the Wyoming trial court decision and dismiss the lawsuit challenging the 2015 rule in response to the BLM issuance of a proposed rulemaking to rescind the 2015 rule and, in December 2017, the BLM published a final rule rescinding the March 2015 rule. In January 2018, litigation challenging the BLM rescission of the 2015 rule was brought in federal court, but, in June 2016, a Wyoming federal judge struck down this final rule, finding that the BLM lacked authority to promulgate the rule. That decision was appealed by the BLM to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit in 2016, but, in March 2017, the BLM filed a request with the Tenth Circuit to put the appeal on hold pending rescission of the 2015 final rule. The U.S. Congress ( Congress ) has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. At the state level, some states, including Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico, where the drilling program is expected to operate, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting legal requirements that could impose new or more stringent permitting, public disclosure, or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. States could elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the State of New York in 2015. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. If new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where the drilling program operates, including, for example, on federal and American Indian lands, the partnership could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. In December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that water cycle activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under some circumstances. Water cycle describes the use of water in hydraulic fracturing, from water withdrawals to the making of hydraulic fracturing fluids, through the mixing and injection of hydraulic fracturing fluids in oil and natural gas production wells, to the collection and disposal or reuse of produced water. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs for our customers in the production of oil and gas, including from the developing shale plays, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of additional regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells and an associated decrease in demand for our services and increased compliance costs and time, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. 18 Regulatory initiatives relating to the protection of endangered or threatened species in the United States, in other countries where we operate, could have an adverse impact on our and our customers ability to expand operations. In the United States, the Endangered Species Act (the ESA ) restricts activities that may affect endangered or threatened species or their habitats. Similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (the MBTA ). To the extent species that are listed under the ESA or similar state laws, or are protected under the MBTA, live in the areas where we or our customers operate, both our and our customers abilities to conduct or expand operations and construct facilities could be limited or be forced to incur material additional costs. The designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species could indirectly cause us to incur additional costs, cause our or our customers operations to become subject to operating restrictions or bans, and limit future development activity in affected areas. The designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where we or our customers might conduct operations could result in limitations or prohibitions on our operations and could adversely impact our business. Our operations and reputation may be impaired if certain information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyberattack. The information technology systems of our general partner and TETRA are critically important to operating our business efficiently. We rely on these information technology systems to manage business data, communications, supply chain, customer invoicing, employee information, and other business processes. Our general partner outsources certain business process functions to TETRA and third party providers and similarly relies on TETRA and these third parties to maintain and store confidential information on their systems. The failure of these information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. Although our general partner allocates significant resources to protect these information technology systems, we have experienced varying degrees of cyber incidents in the normal conduct of our business, including viruses, worms, other destructive software, process breakdowns, phishing and other malicious activities. Such breaches have in the past and could again in the future result in unauthorized access to information including customer, supplier, employee, or other company confidential data. We do not carry insurance against these risks, although our general partner invests in security technology, performs penetration tests from time to time, and designs our business processes to attempt to mitigate the risk of such breaches. While we believe these measures are generally effective, there can be no assurance that security breaches will not occur. Moreover, the development and maintenance of these measures requires continuous monitoring as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures evolve. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, cybersecurity threats and incidents, n1 of which has been material to us to date. However, a successful breach or attack could have a material negative impact on our operations or business reputation and subject us to consequences such as litigation and direct costs associated with incident response. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us If the Preferred Units issued in August 2016 and September 2016 are not redeemed for cash, as intended, the result would be the issuance of additional partnership common units in the future, resulting in dilution of our existing common unitholders ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional partnership common units that we may issue at any time without the approval of our common unitholders. In addition, subject to the provisions of the Series A Preferred Unit Purchase Agreements (the Unit Purchase Agreements ), we may issue an unlimited number of partnership units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation, or voting. On August 8, 2016 , we issued an aggregate of 4,374,454 of the Preferred Units for a cash purchase price of $1143 per Preferred Unit (the Issue Price ), resulting in total net proceeds, after deducting certain offering expenses, of $49.8 million . Additionally, on September 20, 2016 , we issued an aggregate of 2,624,672 of Preferred Units for a cash purchase price of $1143 per Preferred Unit, resulting in total net proceeds, after deducting certain offering expenses, of $29.0 million . 19 Pursuant to the Unit Purchase Agreement dated August 8, 2016 , our general partner executed the Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Partnership (the Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement ) to, among other things, authorize and establish the rights and preferences of the Preferred Units. The Preferred Units are a class of equity security that ranks senior to all classes or series of our equity securities with respect to distribution rights and rights upon liquidation. The holders of Preferred Units (each, a Preferred Unitholder ) receive quarterly distributions in kind in additional Preferred Units, equal to an annual rate of 1100% of the Issue Price ( $12573 per unit), subject to certain adjustments, including adjustments related to any future issuances of common units below a set price, and any quarterly distributions on our common units in excess of $0.3775 per common unit. In the event we fail to pay in full any quarterly distribution in additional Preferred Units, then until such failure is cured we are prohibited from making any distributions on our common units. Beginning on March 8, 2017 and on the first Trading Day (as defined in the Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement) of each calendar month thereafter for a total of thirty months (each, a Conversion Date ), the Preferred Units convert into common units representing limited partner interests in the partnership in an amount equal to, with respect to each Preferred Unitholder, the number of Preferred Units held by such Preferred Unitholder divided by the number of Conversion Dates remaining. On June 7, 2017, as permitted under the Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement, we elected to defer the monthly conversion of Preferred Units for each of the Conversion Dates during the 3 month period beginning July 2017. As a result, no Preferred Units were converted into common units during the 3 month period ended September 30, 2017, and future monthly conversions were increased beginning in October 2017. During 2018, conversions of the Preferred Units resulted in the issuance of approximately 8.0 million common units. We may, at our option, pay cash, or a combination of cash and common units, to the Preferred Unitholders instead of issuing common units on any Conversion Date, subject to certain restrictions as described in the Amended and Restated Partnership Agreement and the Credit Agreement. On December 20, 2018, we announced that, given the decline in our common unit price, we were reducing our common unit distributions from $0.75 per unit per year (or $0.1875 per quarter) to $0.04 per unit per year (or $0.01 per quarter) for a period of up to four quarters, beginning with the February 2019 distribution. We intend to use the approximately $34 million of savings from the reduced common unit distribution to redeem the remaining Preferred Units for cash and avoid the dilution to our common unitholders that would occur if the Preferred Units were converted into common units at a low unit price. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to fully redeem the remaining Preferred Units for cash and that additional dilution will not occur. If the remaining Preferred Units are not redeemed for cash, as intended, the result would be the issuance of additional common units upon conversion thereof, which would result in the dilution of our common unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of the available cash that we generate each quarter after paying expenses and establishing prudent operating reserves, which could limit our ability to grow. Our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of the available cash we generate each quarter. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of cash reserves that our general partner establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements (including the redemption of our remaining outstanding Preferred Units) and future cash distributions to our common unitholders. As a result, our general partner relies primarily upon external financing sources, including existing debt arrangements and the issuance of additional debt and equity securities, as well as cash flows from operations to a certain extent, to fund our expansion capital expenditures. To the extent that we are unable to finance growth externally, this requirement significantly impairs our ability to grow. In addition, also as a result of this requirement, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent that we issue additional units in connection with any expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units will decrease the amount we distribute on each outstanding unit. On January 22, 2019 , our general partner declared a cash distribution attributable to the quarter ended December 31, 2018 of $0.01 per common unit. This distribution equates to a distribution of $0.04 per outstanding common unit, on an annualized basis. This cash distribution was paid on February 14, 2019 to all common unitholders of record as of the close of business on February 1, 2019 . The amount of quarterly distributions is determined based on a variety of factors, including our estimates of cash needs to fund our future operating, investing, and debt service requirements (including the redemption of our remaining outstanding Preferred Units). Our estimates of these future cash requirements are used in the determination of available cash, as defined in our Partnership Agreement. We will continue to monitor the uncertain levels of cash flows from operating activities and the levels of cash flows from investing activities necessary to maintain our equipment fleet, and use these estimates 20 in the determination of the levels of our future quarterly distributions. There can be no assurance that our quarterly distributions will increase from this reduced amount per common unit, or that there will not be further decreases in the amount of distributions in the future. Our partnership agreement requires us to complete a reverse common unit split in certain circumstances. Our partnership agreement, as amended as of December 24, 2018, provides that on or after March 1, 2019, if (i) the closing bid price of our common units is less than $300 for five (5) consecutive trading days and (ii) we have elected to convert the Preferred Units into common units to settle a monthly conversion at that time, we will be required to complete a reverse split of our common units to increase the price of such common units to at least $10.00 per unit, as described in the partnership agreement, as amended. As announced on December 20, 2018, we intend to use the approximately $34 million of savings from our reduced common unit distribution to redeem the remaining Preferred Units for cash and avoid the dilution to our common unitholders that would occur if the remaining outstanding Preferred Units were converted into common units. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to fully redeem the remaining outstanding Preferred Units for cash and that dilution will not occur which could result in a reduction of our common unit price that would require us to complete a reverse common unit split. TETRA controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations, and thereby controls us. TETRA has conflicts of interest, which may permit it to favor its own interests to our unitholders detriment. TETRA controls our general partner, and through the general partner controls us. Some of our general partner directors are directors of TETRA or its affiliates that own our general partner. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between TETRA and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the 1 hand, and us and our common unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of TETRA and its affiliates over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires TETRA to pursue a business strategy that favors us. The directors and officers of TETRA and its affiliates have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of TETRA, which may be contrary to our interests; our general partner controls the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the 1 hand, and TETRA, on the other hand, including provisions governing administrative services, acquisitions, and non competition provisions; our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, including TETRA and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest; our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties to our common unitholders and us, and has also restricted the remedies available to our common unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; our general partner will determine the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, repayment of indebtedness, and issuances of additional partnership interests, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our common unitholders; our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus, and this determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our common unitholders; our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions; our partnership agreement permits us to distribute up to $15 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non working capital borrowings, or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions on the incentive distribution rights; our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us and TETRA will determine the allocation of shared overhead expenses; our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; 21 our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants, or others to perform services for us; and our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or the common unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to the common unitholders in certain situations. Our reliance on TETRA for certain general and administrative support services and our limited ability to control certain costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which will be determined by our general partner, will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Pursuant to an Omnibus Agreement entered into between TETRA, our general partner and us, TETRA provides to us certain general and administrative services, including, without limitation, legal, accounting, treasury, insurance administration and claims processing and risk management, health, safety and environmental, information technology, human resources, credit, payroll, internal audit and tax services. Our ability to execute our growth strategy depends significantly upon TETRA performance of these services. Our reliance on TETRA could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Additionally, TETRA will receive reimbursement for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit. Our general partner is also entitled to significant reimbursement for certain expenses it incurs on our behalf, including reimbursement for a portion of the cost of its employees who perform services for us. Payments for these services are substantial and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our common unitholders. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner fiduciary duties to our common unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our common unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to consider any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, the exercise of its rights to transfer or vote the partnership units it owns, the exercise of its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement; provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our common unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership; generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner acting in good faith and not involving a vote of our common unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or must be fair and reasonable to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is fair and reasonable, our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; provides that our general partner and its executive officers and directors will not be liable for m1tary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general 22 partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision our general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors or our common unitholders. This could result in lower distributions to our common unitholders. Our general partner has the right, at any time when it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and will retain its then current general partner interest. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will equal the number of common units that would have entitled the holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior 2 quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior 2 quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such reset. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Our common unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our general partner will be chosen indirectly by TETRA through its subsidiary that is the sole shareholder of our general partner. Furthermore, if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. Due to these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if our common unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot currently remove our general partner without its consent. Our common unitholders are currently unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66.7% of all outstanding common units is required to remove our general partner. As of March 1, 2019 , our general partner and its affiliates own 34.5% of our aggregate outstanding common units. We can issue an unlimited number of partnership units in the future, including units that are senior in right of distributions, liquidation and voting to the common units, without the approval of our common unitholders, and our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of its board of directors or our common unitholders, each of which would dilute our common unitholders existing ownership interests. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional partnership units that we may issue at any time without the approval of our common unitholders. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of 23 partnership units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation, or voting. Our general partner also has the right, at any time when it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and will retain its then current general partner interest. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects our previously existing common unitholders proportionate ownership interests in us will decrease; the amount of cash available for distribution on each common unit may decrease; the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common unitholders may be diminished; and the market price of the common units may decline. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without common unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of TETRA or its subsidiaries from transferring all or a portion of its indirect ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and executive officers. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units, other than our general partner and its affiliates, including TETRA. Accordingly, such unitholders voting rights may be limited. Unitholders voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any partnership units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of partnership units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, including TETRA, its transferees and persons who acquired such partnership units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of our common unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 90% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than the then current market price. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of common units. As of March 1, 2019 , our general partner and its affiliates own an aggregate of 34.47% of our common units. Our common unitholders liability may not be limited if a court finds that common unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. Our common unitholders could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if they were a general partner if a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state partnership statute; or 24 our common unitholders right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement, or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitutes control of our business. Our common unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, our common unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17 607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to our common unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of 3 years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners because of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. While our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all of our available cash, our partnership agreement, including provisions requiring us to make cash distributions contained therein, may be amended. Our partnership agreement can be amended with the consent of our general partner and the approval of a majority of the outstanding common units (including common units held by affiliates of TETRA). As of March 1, 2019 , our general partner and its affiliates own an aggregate of 34.5% of our common units. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements that provide additional protection to stockholders of other public companies. Companies listed on the NASDAQ are required to meet the high standards of corporate governance, as set forth in the NASDAQ Listing Rules. These requirements generally do not apply to limited partnerships or to a controlled company, within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules. We are a limited partnership and a controlled company, within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules, and, as a result, we rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of other public companies. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, we will be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a "qualifying income" requirement. Based upon our current operations, we believe that we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on all of our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently 21%, and would likely pay additional state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. 25 We have subsidiaries that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes and are subject to corporate level income taxes. We conduct a portion of our operations through subsidiaries that are organized as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, including our CSI subsidiary. We may elect to conduct additional operations through these corporate subsidiaries in the future. These corporate subsidiaries are subject to U.S. corporate level tax, which reduces the cash available for distribution to us and, in turn, to our unitholders. If the IRS were to successfully assert that these corporations have more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation were enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be further reduced. Distributions from any such corporate subsidiary will generally be treated as dividend income to the extent of the current and accumulated earnings and profits of such corporate subsidiary. An individual unitholder's share of dividend income from any corporate subsidiary would constitute portfolio income that could not be offset by the unitholder's share of our other losses or deductions. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial, or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. From time to time, members of the U.S. Congress have proposed and considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would affect publicly traded partnerships. Although there is no current legislative proposal, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we relay for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any similar of future legislative changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. You are urged to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the status of regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on your investment in our common units. In addition, on January 24, 2017, final regulations regarding which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Code (the "Final Regulations") were published in the Federal Register. The Final Regulations are effective as of January 19, 2017, and apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2017. We do not believe the Final Regulations affect our ability to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity level taxation by individual states. Because of state budget deficits and other reasons, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise, and other forms of taxation. For example, we are subject to an entity level Texas franchise tax. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to additional amounts of entity level taxation, for U.S. federal, state, or local tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. 26 Although we are not subject to U.S. federal income tax other than with respect to our operating U.S. subsidiaries that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, certain of our foreign operations are subject to certain non U.S. taxes. If a taxing authority were to successfully assert that we have more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation were enacted that increased the taxes to which we are subject, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be further reduced. Approximately 8.6% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 , was generated in non U.S. jurisdictions, primarily Mexico, Canada, and Argentina. Our non U.S. operations and subsidiaries are generally subject to income, withholding, and other taxes in the non U.S. jurisdictions in which they are organized or from which they receive income, reducing the amount of cash available for distribution. In computing our tax obligation in these non U.S. jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing tax authorities, such as whether withholding taxes will be reduced by the application of certain tax treaties. Upon review of these positions the applicable authorities may not agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional taxes being imposed on us, reducing the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. In addition, changes in our operations or ownership could result in higher than anticipated taxes being imposed in jurisdictions in which we are organized or from which we receive income and further reducing the cash available for distribution. Although these taxes may be properly characterized as foreign income taxes, our unitholders may not be able to credit them against the liability for U.S. federal income taxes on the unitholders share of our earnings. In addition, our operations in countries in which we operate now or in the future may involve risks associated with the legal structure used and the taxation on assets transferred into a particular country. Tax laws of non U.S. jurisdictions are subject to potential legislative, judicial, or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. Any such changes may result in additional taxes above the amounts we currently anticipate and further reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. If the IRS contests the U.S. federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner, because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Legislation applicable to partnership tax years beginning after 2017 alters the procedures for auditing large partnerships and for assessing and collecting taxes due (including penalties and interest) as a result of a partnership level federal income tax audit. Under these new rules, unless we are eligible to (and do) elect to issue revised information statements to our partners with respect to an audited and adjusted partnership tax return, the IRS may assess and collect taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us in the year in which the audit is completed. If we are required to pay taxes, penalties and interest as a result of audit adjustments, cash available for distribution to our unitholders may be substantially reduced. In addition, because payment would be due for the taxable year in which the audit is completed, unitholders during that taxable year would bear the expense of the adjustment even if they were not unitholders during the audited tax year. Unitholders share of our income will be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder allocable share of our taxable income (including our global intangible low taxed income realized from certain foreign corporate subsidiaries) will be taxable to the unitholder, which may require the payment of U.S. federal income taxes, and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on the unitholder share of our taxable income, even if the unitholder receives no cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. 27 Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell common units, they will recognize a gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in that common unit, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units our unitholders sell will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if our unitholders sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash the unitholders receive from the sale. A substantial portion of the amount realized from a unitholder sale of our units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to such unitholder due to potential recapture Item, including depreciation recapture. Thus, a unitholder may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of units if the amount realized on a sale of such units is less than such unitholder adjusted basis in the units. Net capital loss may only offset capital gains and, in the case of individuals, up to $3,000 of ordinary income per year. In the taxable period in which a unitholder sells its units, such unitholder may recognize ordinary income from our allocations of income and gain to such unitholder prior to the sale and from recapture Item that generally cannot be offset by any capital loss recognized upon the sale of units. Unitholders may be subject to limitation on their ability to deduct interest expense incurred by us. In general, we are entitled to a deduction for interest paid or accrued on indebtedness properly allocable to our trade or business during our taxable year. However, under the Act, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, our deduction for business interest is limited to the sum of our business interest income and 30% of our adjusted taxable income. For the purposes of this limitation, our adjusted taxable income is computed without regard to any business interest expense or business interest income, and in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 2022, any deduction allowable for depreciation, amortization, or depletion. This limitation could result in an increase in the taxable income allocable to a unitholder for such taxable year without any corresponding increase in the cash available for distribution to such unitholder. Tax exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in our common units by tax exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Further, with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax exempt entity with more than 1 unrelated trades or businesses (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours) is required to compute the unrelated business taxable income of such tax exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction). As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in our partnership to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa. Tax exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. Non U.S. Unitholders will be subject to U.S. taxes and withholding with respect to their income and gain from owning our units. Non U.S. unitholders are generally taxed and subject to income tax filing requirements by the United States on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business ( effectively connected income ). Income allocated to our unitholders and any gain from the sale of our units will generally be considered to be effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. As a result, distributions to a Non U.S. unitholder will be subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate and a Non U.S. unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of a unit will also be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain realized from the sale or disposition of that unit. The Act imposes a withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a Non U.S. unitholder sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the IRS has 28 temporarily suspended the application of this withholding rule to open market transfers of interests in publicly traded partnerships pending promulgation of regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges. It is not clear if or when such regulations or other guidance will be issued. Non U.S. unitholders should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Due to a number of factors, including our inability to match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders tax returns. We prorate our Item of income, gain, loss, and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge aspects of our proration method and could change the allocation of Item of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our Item of income, gain, loss, and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Although final Treasury Regulations allow publicly traded partnerships to use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax Item among transferor and transferee unitholders, these regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our proration method, we may be required to change our allocation of Item of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders. Taxable income from our non U.S. businesses is not eligible for the 20% deduction for qualified publicly traded partnership income. Pursuant to the Act, a unitholder is generally allowed a deduction equal to 20% of our qualified publicly traded partnership income that is allocated to such unitholder. For purposes of the deduction, the term qualified publicly traded partnership income includes the net amount of such unitholder allocable share of our income that is effectively connected to our U.S. trade or business activities. Because our non U.S. business operations earn income that is not effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business, unitholders may not apply the 20% deduction for qualified publicly traded partnership income to that portion of our income. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a short seller to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a short seller to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller, and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss, or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder, and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of our common units. 29 In determining the Item of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates ourselves using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to determine the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes . A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the timing or amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. Unitholders will likely be subject to non U.S., state and local taxes, and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including non U.S., state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance, or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Unitholders will likely be required to file non U.S., state, and local income tax returns and pay non U.S., state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. In the United States, we own assets and conduct business in many states, most of which currently impose a personal income tax on individuals and an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own or control assets or conduct business in additional jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. Unitholders may be subject to tax in 1 or more non U.S. jurisdictions, including Canada, Mexico, and Argentina, and as a result of owning our common units if, under the laws of any such country, we are considered to be carrying on business there. If unitholders are subject to tax in any such country, they may be required to file a tax return with, and pay taxes to, that country based on their allocable share of our income. We may be required to reduce distributions to unitholders on account of any withholding obligations imposed upon us by that country in respect of such allocation to the unitholders. In addition, the United States may not allow a tax credit for any foreign income taxes that unitholders directly or indirectly incur. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. N1 Item 2 Properties.
