CIK: 1520048
Company Name: PERMIANVILLE ROYALTY TRUST
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-03-18
Accession Number: 0001104659-19-015584


Item 1 Business. Permianville Royalty Trust (the Trust ), previously known as Enduro Royalty Trust, is a Delaware statutory trust formed in May 2011 pursuant to a trust agreement (the Trust Agreement ) among Enduro Resource Partners LLC ( Enduro ), as trustor, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the Trustee ), as trustee, and Wilmington Trust Company (the Delaware Trustee ), as Delaware Trustee. The Trust was created to acquire and hold for the benefit of the Trust unitholders a net profits interest representing the right to receive 80% of the net profits from the sale of oil and natural gas production from certain properties in the states of Texas, Louisiana and New Mexico held by Enduro as of the date of the conveyance of the net profits interest to the Trust (the Net Profits Interest ). The properties in which the Trust holds the Net Profits Interest are referred to as the Underlying Properties. In connection with the closing of the initial public offering of units of beneficial interest in the Trust ( Trust Units ) in November 2011, Enduro Operating LLC, a Texas limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Enduro ( Enduro Operating ), and Enduro Texas LLC, a Texas limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Enduro ( Enduro Texas ), merged, with each entity surviving the merger. By virtue of the merger, Enduro Texas retained all rights, title and interest to the Net Profits Interest. Enduro Operating and Enduro Texas entered into a Conveyance of Net Profits Interest, dated effective as of July 1, 2011 (as supplemented and amended to date, the Conveyance ), to effect the transfer of the Net Profits Interest from Enduro Operating to Enduro Texas. On November 8, 2011, Enduro Texas merged with and into the Trust (the Trust Merger ) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated November 3, 2011 (the Trust Merger Agreement ). Under the terms of the Trust Merger Agreement, the Trust continued as the surviving entity, and the limited liability company interest in Enduro Texas held by Enduro prior to the effective time of the Trust Merger converted into the right to receive 33,000,000 Trust Units. Further, by virtue of the Trust Merger, the Trust retained all right, title and interest to the Net Profits Interest (including the right to enforce the Conveyance against Enduro Operating, as grantor). On November 8, 2011, the Trust, Enduro Operating and Enduro Texas entered into a Supplement to Conveyance of Net Profits Interest to acknowledge that The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee, is deemed the grantee under the Conveyance and a party thereto. Immediately following the Trust Merger, Enduro completed an initial public offering of 13,200,000 Trust Units at a price to the public of $22 per unit. In October 2013, Enduro completed a secondary offering of 11,200,000 Trust Units at a price to the public of $1385 per unit. The Trust did not sell any Trust Units in the offering and did not receive any proceeds from the offering. After the completion of the secondary offering, Enduro owned 8,600,000 Trust Units, or 26% of the issued and outstanding Trust Units. At a special meeting of Trust unitholders held on August 30, 2017, unitholders approved several proposals, including amendments to the Trust Agreement and Conveyance. In September 2017, Enduro, the Trustee and the Delaware Trustee entered into the First Amendment to Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, which amended certain provisions of the Trust Agreement to, among other things, allow Enduro to sell interests in the Underlying Properties free and clear of the Net Profits Interest with the approval of Trust unitholders holding at least 50% of the then outstanding units of the Trust at a meeting held in accordance with the requirements of the Trust Agreement. This amendment reduced the required threshold for approval of such sales from 75% to 50% of the outstanding units of the Trust. To effect the same changes as those included in the amended Trust Agreement, Enduro, the Trustee and the Delaware Trustee also entered into the First Amendment to Conveyance of Net Profits Interest. As a result of the Trust unitholders approving amendments to the Trust Agreement and Conveyance and the approval of the divestiture of certain properties in the Permian Basin, Enduro and the Trustee entered into the Partial Release, Reconveyance and Termination Agreement (the Partial Release ). Pursuant to the terms of the Partial Release, the Trustee, on behalf of the Trust, reconveyed, terminated and released to Enduro the Net Profits Interest with respect to certain of the Underlying Properties sold pursuant to eight letter agreements or purchase and sale agreements, as applicable, entered into between Enduro and eight separate counterparties. In July 2018, Enduro entered into a purchase and sale agreement with COERT Holdings 1 LLC ( COERT or the Sponsor ) for the Underlying Properties and all of the outstanding Trust Units owned by Enduro (the Sale Transaction ), and on August 31, 2018, the parties closed the Sale Transaction. In connection with the Sale Transaction, COERT assumed all of Enduro obligations under the Trust Agreement and other instruments to which Enduro and the Trustee were parties. COERT is a Delaware limited liability company engaged in the production and development of oil and natural gas from properties located in the Rockies, the Permian Basin of west Texas and southeastern New Mexico, and the Arklatex region of Texas and Louisiana. References to COERT or the Sponsor in this Form 10 K refer to COERT Holdings 1 LLC, the current sponsor of the Trust, and references to Enduro in this Form 10 K refer to Enduro Resource Partners LLC, the original sponsor of the Trust. The Net Profits Interest is passive in nature and neither the Trust nor the Trustee has any management control over or responsibility for costs relating to the operation of the Underlying Properties. The Net Profits Interest entitles the Trust to receive 80% of the net profits from the sale of oil and natural gas production from the Underlying Properties during the term of the Trust. The Trust Agreement provides that the Trust business activities are limited to owning the Net Profits Interest and any activity reasonably related to such ownership, including activities required or permitted by the terms of the Conveyance. As a result, the Trust is not permitted to acquire other oil and natural gas properties or net profits interests or otherwise to engage in activities beyond those necessary for the conservation and protection of the Net Profits Interest. The Trust has no employees. Administrative functions are performed by the Trustee pursuant to the Trust Agreement. The Trustee has no authority over or responsibility for, and no involvement with, any aspect of the oil and gas operations or other activities on the Underlying Properties. The duties of the Trustee are specified in the Trust Agreement and by the laws of the state of Delaware, except as modified by the Trust Agreement. The Trustee principal duties consist of collecting cash attributable to the Net Profits Interest; paying expenses, charges and obligations of the Trust from the Trust assets; distributing distributable cash to the Trust unitholders; causing to be prepared and distributed a tax information report for each Trust unitholder and preparing and filing tax returns on behalf of the Trust; causing to be prepared and filed reports required to be filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), and by the rules of any securities exchange or quotation system on which the Trust Units are listed or admitted to trading; causing to be prepared and filed a reserve report by or for the Trust by independent reserve engineers as of December 31 of each year in accordance with criteria established by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ); establishing, evaluating and maintaining a system of internal control over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002; enforcing the Trust rights under certain agreements; and taking any action it deems necessary or advisable to best achieve the purposes of the Trust. In connection with the formation of the Trust, the Trust entered into several agreements with Enduro that imposed obligations upon Enduro, including the Conveyance and a Registration Rights Agreement, which COERT assumed in connection with the Sale Transaction. The Trustee has the power and authority under the Trust Agreement to enforce these agreements on behalf of the Trust. Additionally, the Trustee may from time to time supplement or amend the Conveyance and the Registration Rights Agreement without the approval of Trust unitholders in order to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any defective or inconsistent provisions, to grant any benefit to all of the Trust unitholders, to comply with changes in applicable law or to change the name of the Trust. Such supplement or amendment, however, 4 Table of Contents may not materially adversely affect the interests of the Trust unitholders. The Trustee may create a cash reserve to pay for future liabilities of the Trust and may authorize the Trust to borrow m1y to pay administrative or incidental expenses of the Trust that exceed its cash on hand and available reserves. The Trustee may authorize the Trust to borrow from any person, including the Trustee, the Delaware Trustee or an affiliate thereof, although n1 of the Trustee, the Delaware Trustee nor any affiliate thereof intends to lend funds to the Trust. The Trustee may also cause the Trust to mortgage its assets to secure payment of the indebtedness. The terms of such indebtedness and security interest, if funds were loaned by the Trustee, Delaware Trustee or an affiliate thereof, would be similar to the terms that such entity would grant to a similarly situated commercial customer with whom it did not have a fiduciary relationship. Under the terms of the Trust Agreement, COERT has provided the Trust with a $12 million letter of credit to be used by the Trust in the event that its cash on hand (including available cash reserves) is not sufficient to pay ordinary course administrative expenses. If the Trust requires more than the $12 million under the letter of credit to pay administrative expenses, COERT has agreed to loan funds to the Trust necessary to pay such expenses. If the Trust borrows funds or draws on the letter of credit, no further distributions will be made to Trust unitholders until such amounts borrowed or drawn are repaid. Each month, the Trustee pays Trust obligations and expenses and distributes to the Trust unitholders the remaining proceeds received from the Net Profits Interest. The cash held by the Trustee as a reserve against future liabilities or for distribution at the next distribution date may be held in a noninterest bearing account or may be invested in interest bearing obligations of the United States government; m1y market funds that invest only in United States government securities; repurchase agreements secured by interest bearing obligations of the United States government; or bank certificates of deposit. The Trust is not subject to any pre set termination provisions based on a maximum volume of oil or natural gas to be produced or the passage of time. The Trust will dissolve upon the earliest to occur of the following the Trust, upon approval of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Trust Units, sells the Net Profits Interest; the annual cash proceeds received by the Trust attributable to the Net Profits Interest are less than $2 million for each of any 2 consecutive years; the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Trust Units vote in favor of dissolution; or the Trust is judicially dissolved. Upon dissolution of the Trust, the Trustee would sell all of the Trust assets, either by private sale or public auction, and, after payment or the making of reasonable provision for payment of all liabilities of the Trust, distribute the net proceeds of the sale to the Trust unitholders. Marketing and Post Production Services Pursuant to the terms of the Conveyance, the Sponsor has the responsibility to market, or cause to be marketed, the oil and natural gas production attributable to the Net Profits Interest in the Underlying Properties. The terms of the Conveyance restrict the Sponsor from charging any fee for marketing production attributable to the Net Profits Interest other than fees for marketing paid to non affiliates. Accordingly, a marketing fee is not deducted (other than fees paid to non affiliates) in the calculation of the Net Profits Interest share of net profits. The net profits to the Trust from the sales of oil and natural gas production from the Underlying Properties attributable to the Net Profits Interest is determined based on the same price that the Sponsor receives for sales of oil and natural gas production attributable to the Sponsor interest in the Underlying Properties. However, if the oil or natural gas is processed, the net profits receive the same processing upgrade or downgrade as the Sponsor. The operators of the Underlying Properties sell the oil produced from the Underlying Properties to third party crude oil purchasers. Oil production from the Underlying Properties is typically transported by truck from the field to the closest gathering facility or refinery. The operators sell the majority of the oil production from the Underlying Properties under contracts using market sensitive pricing. The price received by the operators for the oil production from the Underlying Properties is usually based on a regional price applied to equal daily quantities in the month of delivery that is then reduced for differentials based upon delivery location and oil quality. Natural gas produced by the operators is marketed and sold to third party purchasers. The natural gas is sold pursuant to contracts with such third parties, and the sales contracts are in their secondary terms and are on a month to month basis. The contract prices are based on a published regional index price, after adjustments for Btu content, transportation and related charges. The following purchasers individually accounted for ten percent or more of sales from the Underlying Properties that were included in calculating the Trust Income from net profits interest for the periods presented. The table provides the percentage represented by the purchasers during the periods presented Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 ConocoPhillips 30 % 32 % 32 % Occidental Petroleum 19 % 22 % 19 % Navajo Refining 12 % 12 % 13 % Competition and Markets The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. The Sponsor competes with major oil and natural gas companies and independent oil and natural gas companies for oil and natural gas, equipment, personnel and markets for the sale of oil and natural gas. Many of these competitors are financially stronger than the Sponsor, but even financially troubled competitors can affect the market because of their need to sell oil and natural gas at any price to attempt to maintain cash flow. Because the Sponsor and the third party operators of the Underlying Properties are subject to competitive conditions in the oil and natural gas industry, the Trust Net Profits Interest is indirectly subject to those same competitive conditions. Oil and natural gas compete with other forms of energy available to customers, primarily based on price. These alternate forms of energy include electricity, coal and fuel oils. Changes in the availability or price of oil, natural gas or other forms of energy, as well as business conditions, conservation, legislation, regulations and the ability to convert to alternate fuels and other forms of energy may affect the demand for oil and natural gas. Future prices for oil and natural gas will directly impact Trust distributions, estimates of reserves attributable to the Trust interests and estimated and actual future net revenues to the Trust. In view of the many uncertainties that affect the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, neither the Trust nor the Sponsor can make reliable predictions of future oil and natural gas supply and demand or future product prices. Nevertheless, lower product prices generally will result in lower distributions, lower estimates of reserves attributable to the Trust interests and lower estimated and actual future net revenues to the Trust. All of the Trust assets are located in the United States. The operators of the Underlying Properties sell the oil and natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties to third party purchasers in the United States. Demand for natural gas generally is higher in the winter months, but otherwise seasonal factors do not affect the Trust. 5 Table of Contents Description of Trust Units Each Trust Unit is a unit of beneficial interest in the Trust and is entitled to receive cash distributions from the Trust on a pro rata basis. Each Trust unitholder has the same rights regarding his or her Trust Units as every other Trust unitholder has regarding his or her units. The Trust Units are in book entry form only and are not represented by certificates. The Trust had 33,000,000 Trust Units outstanding as of March 15, 2019. Distributions and Income Computations Each month, the Trustee determines the amount of funds available for distribution to the Trust unitholders. Available funds are the excess cash, if any, received by the Trust from the Net Profits Interest and other sources (such as interest earned on any amounts reserved by the Trustee) that month, over the Trust liabilities for that month. Available funds are reduced by any cash the Trustee decides to hold as a reserve against future liabilities. The holders of Trust Units as of the applicable record date (generally the last business day of each calendar month) are entitled to monthly distributions payable on or before the 10th business day after the record date. In the event that the net profits for any computation period is a negative amount, the Trust will receive no payment for that period, and any such negative amount plus accrued interest will be deducted from gross profits in the following computation period for purposes of determining the net profits for that following computation period. Unless otherwise advised by counsel or the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ), the Trustee will treat the income and expenses of the Trust for each month as belonging to the Trust unitholders of record on the monthly record date. Trust unitholders generally will recognize income and expenses for tax purposes in the month the Trust receives or pays those amounts, rather than in the month the Trust distributes the cash to which such income or expenses (as applicable) relate. Minor variances may occur. For example, the Trustee could establish a reserve in 1 month that would not result in a tax deduction until a later month. Transfer of Trust Units Trust unitholders may transfer their Trust Units in accordance with the Trust Agreement. The Trustee will not require either the transferor or transferee to pay a service charge for any transfer of a Trust Unit. The Trustee may require payment of any tax or other governmental charge imposed for a transfer. The Trustee may treat the owner of any Trust Unit as shown by its records as the owner of the Trust Unit. The Trustee will not be considered to know about any claim or demand on a Trust Unit by any party except the record owner. A person who acquires a Trust Unit after any monthly record date will not be entitled to the distribution relating to that monthly record date. Delaware law and the Trust Agreement govern all matters affecting the title, ownership or transfer of Trust Units. Periodic Reports The Trustee files all required Trust federal and state income tax and information returns. The Trustee prepares and mails to Trust unitholders annual reports that Trust unitholders need to correctly report their share of the income and deductions of the Trust. The Trustee also causes to be prepared and filed reports that are required to be filed under the Exchange Act and by the rules of any securities exchange or quotation system on which the Trust Units are listed or admitted to trading, and also causes the Trust to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, including but not limited to, establishing, evaluating and maintaining a system of internal control over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 thereof. Each Trust unitholder and his or her representatives may examine, for any proper purpose, during reasonable business hours, the records of the Trust and the Trustee, subject to such restrictions as are set forth in the Trust Agreement. Liability of Trust Unitholders Under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, Trust unitholders are entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. The courts in jurisdictions outside of Delaware, however, might not give effect to such limitation. Voting Rights of Trust Unitholders The Trustee or Trust unitholders owning at least 10% of the outstanding Trust Units may call meetings of Trust unitholders. The Trust is responsible for all costs associated with calling a meeting of Trust unitholders, unless such meeting is called by the Trust unitholders in which case the Trust unitholders are responsible for all costs associated with calling such meeting. Meetings must be held in such location as is designated by the Trustee in the notice of such meeting. The Trustee must send notice of the time and place of the meeting and the matters to be acted upon to all of the Trust unitholders at least 20 days and not more than 60 days before the meeting. Trust unitholders representing a majority of Trust Units outstanding must be present or represented to have a quorum. Each Trust unitholder is entitled to 1 vote for each Trust Unit owned. Abstentions and broker non votes shall not be deemed to be a vote cast. Unless otherwise required by the Trust Agreement, a matter may be approved or disapproved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Trust Units present in person or by proxy at a meeting where there is a quorum. This is true even if a majority of the total Trust Units did not approve it. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Trust Units is required to dissolve the Trust; amend the Trust Agreement (except with respect to certain matters that do not adversely affect the rights of Trust unitholders in any material respect); or approve the sale of all the assets of the Trust (including the sale of the Net Profits Interest). At the special meeting of Trust unitholders held on August 30, 2017, unitholders approved amendments to the Trust Agreement. In September 2017, Enduro, the Trustee and the Delaware Trustee entered into the First Amendment to Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, which amended certain provisions of the Trust Agreement to, among other things, allow Enduro (and, therefore, following the Sale Transaction, the Sponsor) to sell interests in the Underlying Properties free and clear of the Net Profits Interest with the approval of Trust unitholders holding at least 50% of the then outstanding units of the Trust at a meeting held in accordance with the requirements of the Trust Agreement. This amendment reduced the required threshold for approval of such sales from 75% to 50% of the outstanding units of the Trust. In addition, certain amendments to the Trust Agreement may be made by the Trustee without approval of the Trust unitholders. 6 Table of Contents Computation of Net Profits The provisions of the Conveyance governing the computation of the net profits are detailed and extensive. The following information summarizes the material provisions of the Conveyance related to the computation of the net profits, but is qualified in its entirety by the text of the Conveyance, which is incorporated by reference as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Net Profits Interest The amounts paid to the Trust for the Net Profits Interest are based on, among other things, the definitions of gross profits and net profits contained in the Conveyance and described below. Under the Conveyance, net profits are computed monthly, and 80% of the aggregate net profits attributable to the sale of oil and natural gas production from the Underlying Properties for each calendar month will be paid to the Trust on or before the end of the following month. The Sponsor will not pay to the Trust any interest on the net profits held by the Sponsor prior to payment to the Trust, provided that such payments are timely made. Gross profits means the aggregate amount received by the Sponsor from and after July 1, 2011 from sales of oil and natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties that are not attributable to a production month that occurs prior to June 1, 2011 (after deducting the appropriate share of all royalties and any overriding royalties, production payments and other similar charges (in each case, in existence as of June 1, 2011) and other than certain excluded proceeds, as described in the Conveyance), including all proceeds and consideration received (i) directly or indirectly, for advance payments, (ii) directly or indirectly, under take or pay and similar provisions of production sales contracts (when credited against the price for delivery of production) and (iii) under balancing arrangements. Gross profits do not include consideration for the transfer or sale of any Underlying Property by the Sponsor or any subsequent owner to any new owner, unless the Net Profits Interest is released (as is permitted under certain circumstances). Gross profits also do not include any amount for oil or natural gas lost in production or marketing or used by the owner of the Underlying Properties in drilling, production and plant operations. Net profits means, as more fully set forth in the Conveyance, gross profits less the following costs, expenses and, where applicable, losses, liabilities and damages all as actually incurred by the Sponsor and attributable to the Underlying Properties on or after July 1, 2011 but that are not attributable to a production month that occurs prior to July 1, 2011 (as such Item are reduced by any offset amounts, as described in the Conveyance) with the exception of certain costs and expenses related to 20 wells located in the Haynesville Shale identified in the Conveyance, all costs for (i) drilling, development, production and abandonment operations, (ii) all direct labor and other services necessary for drilling, operating, producing and maintaining the Underlying Properties and workovers of any wells located on the Underlying Properties, (iii) treatment, dehydration, compression, separation and transportation, (iv) all materials purchased for use on, or in connection with, any of the Underlying Properties and (v) any other operations with respect to the exploration, development or operation of hydrocarbons from the Underlying Properties; all losses, costs, expenses, liabilities and damages with respect to the operation or maintenance of the Underlying Properties for (i) defending, prosecuting, handling, investigating or settling litigation, administrative proceedings, claims, damages, judgments, fines, penalties and other liabilities, (ii) the payment of certain judgments, penalties and other liabilities, (iii) the payment or restitution of any proceeds of hydrocarbons from the Underlying Properties, (iv) complying with applicable local, state and federal statutes, ordinance, rules and regulations, (v) tax or royalty audits and (vi) any other loss, cost, expense, liability or damage with respect to the Underlying Properties not paid or reimbursed under insurance; all taxes, charges and assessments (excluding federal and state income, transfer, mortgage, inheritance, estate, franchise and like taxes) with respect to the ownership of, or production of hydrocarbons from, the Underlying Properties; all insurance premiums attributable to the ownership or operation of the Underlying Properties for insurance actually carried with respect to the Underlying Properties, or any equipment located on any of the Underlying Properties, or incident to the operation or maintenance of the Underlying Properties; all amounts and other consideration for (i) rent and the use of or damage to the surface, (ii) delay rentals, shut in well payments and similar payments and (iii) fees for renewal, extension, modification, amendment, replacement or supplementation of the leases included in the Underlying Properties; all amounts charged by the relevant operator as overhead, administrative or indirect charges specified in the applicable operating agreements or other arrangements covering the Underlying Properties or the Sponsor operations with respect thereto; to the extent that the Sponsor is the operator of certain of the Underlying Properties and there is no operating agreement covering such portion of the Underlying Properties, those overhead, administrative or indirect charges that are allocated by the Sponsor to such portion of the Underlying Properties; if, as a result of the occurrence of the bankruptcy or insolvency or similar occurrence of any purchaser of hydrocarbons produced from the Underlying Properties, any amounts previously credited to the determination of the net profits are reclaimed from the Sponsor, then the amounts reclaimed; all costs and expenses for recording the Conveyance and, at the applicable times, terminations and or releases thereof; amounts previously included in gross profits but subsequently paid as a refund, interest or penalty; and at the option of the Sponsor (or any subsequent owner of the Underlying Properties), amounts reserved for approved development expenditure projects, including well drilling, recompletion and workover costs, which amounts will at no time exceed $20 million in the aggregate, and will be subject to the limitations described below (provided that such costs shall not be debited from gross profits when actually incurred). As menti1d above, the costs deducted in the net profits determination will be reduced by certain offset amounts. The offset amounts are further described in the Conveyance, and include, among other things, certain net proceeds attributable to the treatment or processing of hydrocarbons produced from the Underlying Properties and certain non production revenues, including salvage value for equipment related to plugged and aband1d wells. If the offset amounts exceed the costs during a monthly period, the ability to use such excess amounts to offset costs will be deferred and utilized as offsets in the next monthly period to the extent such amounts, plus accrued interest thereon, together with other offsets to costs, for the applicable month, are less than the costs arising in such month. The Trust is not liable to the owners of the Underlying Properties or the operators for any operating capital or other costs or liabilities attributable to the Underlying Properties. The Trustee expects to make distributions to Trust unitholders monthly; however, in the event that the net profits for any computation period is a negative amount, the Trust will receive no payment for that period, and any such negative amount plus accrued interest will be deducted from gross profits in the following computation period for purposes of determining the net profits for that following computation period. The Trust uses the modified cash basis of accounting to report Trust receipts of the Net Profits Interest and payments of expenses incurred. The Net Profits Interest represents the right to receive revenues (oil and natural gas sales), less direct operating expenses (lease operating expenses and production and property taxes) and development expenses of the Underlying Properties, multiplied by 80%. Cash distributions of the Trust will be made based on the amount of cash received by the Trust pursuant to terms of the Conveyance. 7 Table of Contents Additional Provisions If a controversy arises as to the sales price of any production, then for purposes of determining gross profits any proceeds that are withheld for any reason (other than at the request of the Sponsor) are not considered received until such time that the proceeds are actually collected; amounts received and promptly deposited with a non affiliated escrow agent will not be considered to have been received until disbursed to the Sponsor by the escrow agent; and amounts received and not deposited with an escrow agent will be considered to have been received. The Trustee is not obligated to return any cash received from the Net Profits Interest. Any overpayments made to the Trust by the Sponsor due to adjustments to prior calculations of net profits or otherwise will reduce future amounts payable to the Trust until the Sponsor recovers the overpayments plus interest at a prime rate (as described in the Conveyance). The Conveyance generally permits the Sponsor to transfer without the consent or approval of the Trust unitholders all or any part of its interest in the Underlying Properties, subject to the Net Profits Interest. The Trust unitholders are not entitled to any proceeds of a sale or transfer of the Sponsor interest. Except in certain cases where the Net Profits Interest is released, following a sale or transfer, the Underlying Properties will continue to be subject to the Net Profits Interest, and the gross profits attributable to the transferred property will be calculated, paid and distributed by the transferee to the Trust. The Sponsor will have no further obligations, requirements or responsibilities with respect to any such transferred interests. In addition, the Sponsor may, without the consent of the Trust unitholders, require the Trustee to release the Net Profits Interest associated with any lease that accounts for less than or equal to 0.25% of the total production from the Underlying Properties in the prior 12 months, provided that the Net Profits Interest covered by such releases cannot exceed, during any 12 month period, an aggregate fair market value to the Trust of $500,000. These releases will be made only in connection with a sale by the Sponsor to a non affiliate of the relevant Underlying Properties and are conditi1d upon an amount equal to the fair value to the Trust of such Net Profits Interest being treated as an offset amount against costs and expenses. In January 2019, the Sponsor sold 2 producing wells and associated acreage of the Underlying Properties under this provision for a sale price of approximately $62,000, and the Trustee released such properties from the Net Profits Interest As the designated operator of a property included in the Underlying Properties, the Sponsor may enter into farm out, operating, participation and other similar agreements to develop the property, but any transfers made in connection with such agreements will be made subject to the Net Profits Interest. The Sponsor may enter into any of these agreements without the consent or approval of the Trustee or any Trust unitholder. The Sponsor has the right to release, surrender or abandon its interest in any Underlying Property that will no longer produce (or be capable of producing) hydrocarbons in paying quantities (determined without regard to the Net Profits Interest). Upon such release, surrender or abandonment, the portion of the Net Profits Interest relating to the affected property will also be released, surrendered or aband1d, as applicable. The Sponsor also has the right to abandon an interest in the Underlying Properties if (a) such abandonment is necessary for health, safety or environmental reasons or (b) the hydrocarbons that would have been produced from the aband1d portion of the Underlying Properties would reasonably be expected to be produced from wells located on the remaining portion of the Underlying Properties. The Sponsor must maintain books and records sufficient to determine the amounts payable for the Net Profits Interest to the Trust. Monthly and annually, the Sponsor must deliver to the Trustee a statement of the computation of the net profits for each computation period. The Trustee has the right to inspect and review the books and records maintained by the Sponsor during normal business hours and upon reasonable notice. The Sponsor has further agreed to provide the Trust and Trustee with all information and services as are reasonably necessary to fulfill the purposes of the Trust, including such accounting, bookkeeping and informational services as may be necessary for the preparation of reports the Trust is required to prepare or file in accordance with applicable tax and securities laws, exchange listing rules and other requirements, including reserve reports and tax returns. Following the sale of all or any portion of the Underlying Properties, the purchaser will be bound by the obligations of the Sponsor under the Trust Agreement and the Conveyance with respect to the portion sold. 8 Table of Contents U.S. Federal Income Tax Matters The following is a summary of certain U.S. federal income tax matters that may be relevant to the Trust unitholders. This summary is based upon current provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code ), existing and proposed Treasury regulations thereunder and current administrative rulings and court decisions, all of which are subject to changes that may or may not be retroactively applied. No attempt has been made in the following summary to comment on all U.S. federal income tax matters affecting the Trust or the Trust unitholders. The summary has limited application to non U.S. persons and persons subject to special tax treatment such as, without limitation banks, insurance companies or other financial institutions; Trust unitholders subject to the alternative minimum tax; tax exempt organizations; dealers in securities or commodities; regulated investment companies; real estate investment trusts; traders in securities that elect to use a mark to market method of accounting for their securities holdings; non U.S. Trust unitholders that are controlled foreign corporations or passive foreign investment companies ; persons that are S corporations, partnerships or other pass through entities; persons that own their interest in the Trust Units through S corporations, partnerships or other pass through entities; persons that at any time own more than 5% of the aggregate fair market value of the Trust Units; expatriates and certain former citizens or long term residents of the United States; U.S. Trust unitholders whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar; persons who hold the Trust Units as a position in a hedging transaction, straddle , conversion transaction or other risk reduction transaction; or persons deemed to sell the Trust Units under the constructive sale provisions of the Code. Each Trust unitholder should consult his or her own tax advisor with respect to his or her particular circumstances. Classification and Taxation of the Trust Tax counsel to the Trust advised the Trust at the time of formation that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, in its opinion, the Trust would be treated as a grantor trust and not as an unincorporated business entity. No ruling has been or will be requested from the IRS or another taxing authority. The remainder of the discussion below is based on tax counsel opinion, at the time of formation, that the Trust will be classified as a grantor trust for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a grantor trust, the Trust is not subject to U.S. federal income tax at the trust level. Rather, each Trust unitholder is considered for U.S. federal income tax purposes to own its proportionate share of the Trust assets directly as though no Trust were in existence. The income of the Trust is deemed to be received or accrued by the Trust unitholder at the time such income is received or accrued by the Trust, rather than when distributed by the Trust. Each Trust unitholder is subject to tax on its proportionate share of the income and gain attributable to the assets of the Trust and is entitled to claim its proportionate share of the deductions and expenses attributable to the assets of the Trust, subject to applicable limitations, in accordance with the Trust unitholder tax method of accounting and taxable year without regard to the taxable year or accounting method employed by the Trust. The Trust files annual information returns, reporting to the Trust unitholders all Item of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit. The Trust allocates these Item of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit to Trust unitholders based on record ownership on the monthly record dates. It is possible that the IRS or another taxing authority could disagree with this allocation method and assert that income and deductions of the Trust should be determined and allocated on a daily or prorated basis, which could require adjustments to the tax returns of the unitholders affected by this issue and result in an increase in the administrative expense of the Trust in subsequent periods. Under current law, the highest marginal U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to ordinary income of individuals is 37%, and the highest marginal U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to long term capital gains (generally, gains from the sale or exchange of certain investment assets held for more than 1 year) and qualified dividends of individuals is generally 20%. Such marginal tax rates may be effectively increased due to the phaseout of personal exemptions and certain limitations and prohibitions on itemized deductions. The highest marginal U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to corporations is 21%, and such rate applies to both ordinary income and capital gains. Section 1411 of the Code imposes a 38% Medicare tax on certain investment income earned by individuals, estates, and trusts (and a reduced 14% tax on certain tax exempt organizations). For these purposes, investment income generally will include a unitholder allocable share of the trust interest and royalty income plus the gain recognized from a sale of Trust units. In the case of an individual, the tax is imposed on the lesser of (i) the individual net investment income from all investments, or (ii) the amount by which the individual modified adjusted gross income exceeds specified threshold levels depending on such individual U.S. federal income tax filing status. In the case of an estate or trust, the tax is imposed on the lesser of (i) undistributed net investment income, or (ii) the excess adjusted gross income over the dollar amount at which the highest income tax bracket applicable to an estate or trust begins. If a taxpayer disposes of any Section 1254 property (certain oil, gas, geothermal or other mineral property), and the adjusted basis of such property includes adjustments for depletion deductions under Section 611 of the Code, the taxpayer generally must recapture the amount deducted for depletion as ordinary income (to the extent of gain realized on the disposition of the property). This depletion recapture rule applies to any disposition of property that was placed in service by the taxpayer after December 31, 1986. Detailed rules set forth in Sections 11254 1 through 11254 6 of the U.S. Treasury Regulations govern dispositions of property after March 13, 1995. The IRS likely will take the position that a unitholder must recapture depletion upon the disposition of a unit. Classification of the Net Profits Interest Tax counsel to the Trust advised the Trust at the time of formation that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, based upon the reserve report and representations made by the Trust regarding the expected economic life of the Underlying Properties and the expected duration of the Net Profits Interest, in its opinion the Net Profits Interest attributable to proved developed reserves will and the Net Profits Interest attributable to proved undeveloped reserves should be treated as continuing, nonoperating economic interests in the nature of royalties payable out of production from the mineral interests they burden. No assurance can be given that the IRS or another taxing authority will not assert that the Net Profits Interest should be treated differently. Any such different treatment could affect the amount, timing and character of income, gain or loss in respect of an investment in Trust Units. Reporting Requirements for Widely Held Fixed Investment Trusts The Trustee assumes that some Trust Units are held by middlemen, as such term is broadly defined in the Treasury regulations (and includes custodians, nominees, certain joint owners and brokers holding an interest for a custodian street name, collectively referred to herein as middlemen ). Therefore, the Trustee considers the Trust to be a non mortgage widely held fixed investment trust ( WHFIT ) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., 601 Travis Street, Houston, Texas 77002, teleph1 number 1 512 236 6545, is the representative of the Trust that will provide the tax information in accordance with applicable Treasury regulations governing the information reporting requirements of the Trust as a WHFIT. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the middlemen holding Trust Units on behalf of unitholders, and not the Trustee of the Trust, are solely responsible for complying with the information reporting requirements under the Treasury regulations with respect to such Trust Units, including the issuance of IRS Forms 1099 and certain written tax statements. Unitholders whose Trust Units are held by middlemen should consult with such middlemen regarding the information that will be reported to them by the middlemen with respect to the Trust Units. Any generic tax information provided by the Trustee of the Trust is intended to be used only to assist Trust unitholders in the preparation of their federal and state income tax returns. Available Trust Tax Information In compliance with the Treasury regulations reporting requirements for WHFITs and the dissemination of Trust tax reporting information, the Trustee provides a generic tax information reporting booklet which is intended to be used only to assist Trust unitholders in the preparation of their federal and state income tax returns. This tax information booklet can be obtained at www.permianvilleroyaltytrust.com. Environmental Matters and Regulation General. For purposes of the discussion in this section, the oil and natural gas production operations conducted on the properties that are subject to the Net Profits 9 Table of Contents Interest are referred to as the Sponsor operations. The Sponsor oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to stringent and comprehensive federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose significant obligations on the Sponsor operations, including requirements to obtain permits to conduct regulated activities; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment in the performance of drilling, completion and production activities; initiate investigatory and remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former or current operations, such as restoration of drilling pits and plugging of aband1d wells; and apply specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may result in the assessment of significant administrative, civil and criminal sanctions, including m1tary penalties, the imposition of joint and several liability, investigatory and remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting some or all of the Sponsor operations. Moreover, these laws, rules and regulations may restrict the rate of oil and natural gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. The Sponsor has advised the Trustee that it believes that it is in substantial compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to its current operations and that its continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse effect on the cash distributions to the Trust unitholders. While the Trump Administration has taken steps aimed at reducing federal regulatory burdens and costs for oil and natural gas production operations, the recent trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment, and thus, any changes in environmental laws and regulations or re interpretation of enforcement policies that result in more stringent and costly construction, drilling, water management, completion, emission or discharge limits or waste handling, disposal or remediation obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Sponsor development expenses, results of operations and financial position. The Sponsor may be unable to pass on those increases to its customers. Moreover, accidental releases or spills may occur in the course of the Sponsor operations, and there can be no assurance that the Sponsor will not incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of such releases or spills, including any third party claims for damage to property, natural resources or persons. The following is a summary of certain existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which the Sponsor business operations are subject. Hazardous substance and wastes. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, also known as the Superfund law, and comparable state laws impose liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. Under CERCLA, these responsible persons may include the owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and entities that transport, dispose of or arrange for the transport or disposal of hazardous substances released at the site. These responsible persons may be subject to joint and several strict liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. CERCLA also authorizes the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. It is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. The Sponsor generates materials in the course of its operations that may be regulated as hazardous substances. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and comparable state laws regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the EPA, most states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, production and development of crude oil or natural gas are currently regulated under RCRA non hazardous waste provisions. However, it is possible that certain oil and natural gas exploration and production wastes ( E&P Wastes ) now classified as non hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. In accordance with a December 2016 settlement agreement, the EPA agreed to decide by March 2019 whether to revise the EPA current determination exempting oil and gas wastes from regulation as hazardous waste under RCRA. While the EPA has not taken any action toward changing the status of oil and gas wastes under RCRA, any such change could result in an increase in the costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the cash distributions to the Trust unitholders. In addition, the Sponsor generates industrial wastes in the ordinary course of its operations that may be regulated as hazardous wastes. Such wastes must be properly tested, characterized and disposed of according to state and federal regulations. The properties upon which the Sponsor conducts its operations have been used for oil and natural gas exploration and production for many years. Although the Sponsor and, as applicable, the Sponsor predecessor, Enduro, may have utilized operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes may have been disposed of or released at or from the real properties upon which the Sponsor conducts its operations, or at or from other, offsite locations, where these petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes have been taken for recycling or disposal. In addition, the properties upon which the Sponsor conducts its operations may have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons was not under the Sponsor control. These properties and the petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes disposed or released at or from these properties may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, the Sponsor could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes, to clean up contaminated property and to perform remedial operations such as restoration of pits and plugging of aband1d wells to prevent future contamination or to pay some or all of the costs of any such action. Water discharges. The Clean Water Act ( CWA ) and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil, into federal and state waters. The discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by EPA and or an analogous state agency. The term waters of the United States has been broadly defined to include certain inland water bodies, including certain wetlands and intermittent streams. The discharge of dredge and fill material in regulated waters, including wetlands, is also prohibited, unless authorized by a permit issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ( ACE ). CWA Section 401 provides that the applicant for an individual National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System ( NPDES ) permit to be issued by the EPA or an individual Section 404 permit to be issued by the ACE must notify the state in which the discharge will occur and provide an opportunity for the state to determine if the discharge will comply with the state approved water quality program. In some instances this process could result in delay in issuance of the permit, more stringent permit requirements, or denial of the permit. In September 2015, new EPA and ACE rules defining the scope of the waters of the United States, and the EPA and the ACE jurisdiction, became effective ( 2015 Rule ). The 2015 Rule has been challenged in multiple courts on the grounds that it unlawfully expands the reach of CWA programs. Due to the status of pending litigation, the 2015 Rule is currently in effect in 22 states. In the remaining states, regulations in effect before promulgation of the 2015 Rule and guidance interpreting relevant United States Supreme Court rulings are in effect. On December 11, 2018, the heads of the EPA and ACE signed a proposed regulation that would revise the definition of waters of the United States to reduce its reach from the 2015 Rule ( 2018 Pre Proposal Rule ). The fates of the 2015 Rule and the 2018 Pre Proposal Rule and applicability of the rules during current and future litigation are uncertain; however, to the extent the 2015 Rule is in effect, it expands the scope of CWA jurisdiction, and COERT could face increased costs and delays with respect to obtaining permits for dredge and fill activities in wetland areas or other waters of the United States. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the CWA and analogous state laws and regulations. Spill prevention, control and countermeasure ( SPCC ) plan requirements imposed under the CWA require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of waters of the United States in the event of a hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. In 10 Table of Contents addition, the CWA and analogous state laws required individual permits or coverage under general permits for discharges of storm water runoff from certain types of facilities. In June 2016, the EPA issued a final rule implementing wastewater pretreatment standards that prohibit onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities from sending wastewater directly to publicly owned treatment works ( POTWs ). Unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities can send wastewater to a private wastewater treatment facility that can either discharge treated wastewater or send it to a POTW. The EPA is conducting a related study of treatment of oil and gas extraction wastewater at private wastewater treatment facilities. This restriction of disposal options for hydraulic fracturing waste and other changes to CWA requirements may result in increased costs to the Sponsor. In addition, naturally occurring radioactive material ( NORM ) is brought to the surface in connection with oil and gas production. Concerns have arisen over traditional NORM disposal practices (including discharge through publicly owned treatment works into surface waters), which may increase the costs associated with management of NORM. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as amended, or OPA, amends the CWA and establishes strict liability and natural resource damages liability for unauthorized discharges of oil into waters of the United States. OPA requires owners or operators of certain onshore facilities to prepare Facility Response Plans for responding to a worst case discharge of oil into waters of the United States. Hydraulic fracturing. Various federal and state initiatives are underway to regulate, or further investigate, the environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing, a practice that involves the pressurized injection of water, chemicals and other substances into rock formation to stimulate production of oil and natural gas. The U.S. Congress has considered legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act ( SDWA ) to subject hydraulic fracturing operations to regulation under the SDWA Underground Injection Control Program and to require the disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Any such legislation could make it easier for third parties opposed to hydraulic fracturing to initiate legal proceedings against companies. In addition, the federal government is currently undertaking several studies of hydraulic fracturing potential impacts. The Secretary of Energy Advisory Board published their ninety day report that included a number of recommendations. In December 2016, the EPA issued a final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The report did not find widespread, systematic impacts to drinking water from hydraulic fracturing; at the same time, the report acknowledged information gaps that limited EPA ability to fully assess the potential impacts to drinking water resources. In addition, as noted above, the EPA in June 2016 issued a final rule implementing wastewater pretreatment standards that prohibit onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities from sending wastewater directly to POTWs. EPA is conducting a related study of oil and gas extraction wastewater at private wastewater treatment facilities. In March 2015, the federal Bureau of Land Management ( BLM ) released a final rule establishing new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing operations on federal and tribal lands. Several states, trade groups and companies have challenged the legality of the BLM rule in federal court. On September 30, 2015, the U.S. District Court for the District of Wyoming issued a preliminary injunction, blocking BLM from enforcing the new rules nationwide, and on June 21, 2016, the court issued a final ruling striking down the BLM rule. While the U.S. Department of Interior initially has appealed the decision to the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. BLM announced in March 2017 that it intended to rescind the rule. On December 29, 2017, BLM published a final rule that rescinded the 2015 hydraulic fracturing rule. On August 16, 2012 the EPA published final rules that extend New Source Performance Standards ( NSPS ) and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants ( NESHAPs ) to certain exploration and production operations. The final rule requires the use of reduced emission completions or green completions on all hydraulically fractured gas wells constructed or refractured after January 1, 2015. The EPA received numerous requests for reconsideration of these rules from both industry and the environmental community, and court challenges to the rules were also filed. In response to some of these challenges, the EPA amended the rule to extend compliance dates for certain storage vessels, and may issue additional revised rules in response to additional such requests in the future. Only a portion of these new rules appear to affect our operations at this time by requiring new air emissions controls, equipment modification, maintenance, monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting. Although these new requirements will increase our operating and capital expenditures and it is possible that the EPA will adopt further regulation that could further increase our operating and capital expenditures, we do not currently expect such existing and new regulations will have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial results. Some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict or impose additional requirements relating to hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, including the disclosure of information regarding the substances used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Such federal or state legislation could require the disclosure of chemical constituents used in the fracturing process to state or federal regulatory authorities who could then make such information publicly available. Disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process could make it easier for third parties opposing hydraulic fracturing to initiate legal proceedings against producers and service providers based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing is regulated at the federal level, the Sponsor and the third party operators fracturing activities could become subject to additional permit requirements or operational restrictions and also to associated permitting delays and potential increases in costs. In December 2014, the Governor of New York announced that the state would maintain its moratorium on hydraulic fracturing in the state. Further, some local governments, including in Texas, have imposed moratoria on drilling permits within city limits so that local ordinances may be reviewed to assess their adequacy to address such activities. No assurance can be given as to whether or not similar measures might be considered or implemented in the jurisdictions in which the Underlying Properties are located. Air emissions. The federal Clean Air Act ( CAA ) and comparable state laws restrict the emission of air pollutants from many sources through air emissions permitting and regulatory programs and also impose various monitoring and reporting requirements. These laws and regulations may require the Sponsor to obtain pre approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce or significantly increase air emissions, obtain and strictly comply with stringent air emissions permit requirements or incur development expenses to install and utilize specific equipment or technologies to control emissions. For example, the EPA in 2012 adopted federal New Source Performance Standards ( NSPS ) that require the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from certain fractured and refractured natural gas wells for which well completion operations are conducted and further require that most wells use reduced emission completions, also known as green completions. These regulations also establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from production related wet seal and reciprocating compressors, and from pneumatic controllers and storage vessels. In June 2016, the EPA published a final rule adopting additional NSPS requirements for new, modified, or reconstructed oil and gas facilities that require control of the greenhouse gas methane from affected facilities, including requirements to find and repair fugitive leaks of methane emissions at well sites ( Methane Rule ). Following the 2016 presidential election and change in administrations, in 2017 the EPA proposed to delay implementation of the Methane Rule and also convened a reconsideration proceeding that resulted in 2 2018 rulemaking projects aimed at rolling back certain Methane Rule requirements. These actions, like the Methane Rule itself, have been, or are likely to be, challenged in courts. The ultimate fate of the Methane Rule requirements is unclear. Nevertheless, regulations promulgated under the CAA may require the Sponsor to incur development expenses to install and utilize specific equipment, technologies, or work practices to control emissions from its operations, which could reduce the profits available to the Trust and potentially impair the economic development of the Underlying Properties. Obtaining permits has the potential to delay the development of oil and natural gas projects. Federal and state regulatory agencies may impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non compliance with air permits or other requirements of the federal CAA and associated state laws and regulations. Climate change. Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as greenhouse gases or GHGs, and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth atmosphere. In response to the scientific studies, international negotiations to address climate change have occurred. In December 2015, the United States participated in the 21 st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France. The Paris Agreement (adopted at the conference) calls for nations to undertake efforts with respect to global temperatures and GHG emissions. If ratified, the Paris Agreement will take effect in 2020. The United States ratified the Paris Agreement in September 2016; however, the country future participation in the Paris Agreement is uncertain. In June 2017, President Trump announced that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement, but that it may enter into a future international agreement related to GHGs. In August 2017, the State Department officially informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. Such withdrawal has not yet been finalized, and whether the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement is unclear at this time. Further, several states and local governments remain committed to the principles of the Paris Agreement in their effectuation of policy and regulations. It is not possible at this time to predict how or when the United States might impose restrictions on GHGs as a result of the Paris Agreement. Both houses of Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and many states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs 11 Table of Contents work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. These allowances would be expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. Although it is not possible at this time to predict when Congress may pass climate change legislation, any future federal or state laws that may be adopted to address GHG emissions could require the Sponsor to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas the Sponsor produces. The EPA has also taken regulatory action aimed at reducing GHG emissions. In December 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment, which has allowed the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. For example, the EPA adopted regulations under Prevention of Significant Deterioration ( PSD ) and Title V permitting programs for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources. In June 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court held that GHG emissions al1 cannot trigger an obligation to obtain a federal air permit, but the Court upheld EPA authority to regulate GHG emissions from major stationary sources where emissions of traditional criteria pollutants exceed federal permitting thresholds. In November 2010, the EPA published its final rule expanding the existing GHG monitoring and reporting rule to include onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities and onshore oil and natural gas processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. These requirements became applicable in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011 The Underlying Properties may be subject to these requirements or become subject to them in the future. Meanwhile, as noted above, in June 2016 the EPA finalized the Methane Rule. Following the 2016 presidential election and change in administrations, however, in 2017 the EPA proposed to delay implementation of the Methane Rule, and also convened a reconsideration proceeding that resulted in 2 2018 rulemaking projects aimed at rolling back certain Methane Rule requirements. These actions, like the Methane Rule itself, have been (or are likely to be) challenged in courts. The ultimate fate of the Methane Rule requirements is unclear. Nevertheless, regulations promulgated under the CAA may require the Sponsor to incur development expenses to install and utilize specific equipment, technologies, or work practices to control emissions from its operations. In addition, in November 2016, the U.S. Department of the Interior Bureau of Land Management ( BLM ) issued final rules to reduce methane emissions from venting, flaring, and leaks during oil and gas operations on federal and tribal lands that are substantially similar to the EPA Methane Rule. However, in December 2017, the BLM published a final rule to temporarily suspend or delay certain requirements contained in the November 2016 final rule until January 17, 2019, including those requirements relating to venting, flaring and leakage from oil and gas production activities. Further, in September 2018, the BLM published a final rule revising or rescinding certain provisions of the 2016 rule. Although the future implementation of the EPA and BLM rules aimed at controlling GHG emissions from oil and natural gas sources remains uncertain, future federal GHG regulations for the oil and gas industry remain a possibility given the long term trend towards increasing regulation. Because regulation of GHG emissions is relatively new, further regulatory, legislative and judicial developments are likely to occur. Such developments may affect how these GHG initiatives will impact the Sponsor operations. In addition to these regulatory developments, recent judicial decisions that have allowed certain tort claims alleging property damage to proceed against GHG emissions sources may increase the Sponsor litigation risk for such claims. The adoption of any future regulations that require reporting of GHGs or otherwise limit emissions of GHGs from the equipment and operations of the Sponsor could require the Sponsor to incur costs to monitor and report on GHG emissions or reduce emissions of GHGs associated with its operations, and such requirements also could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that the Sponsor produces. Legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address climate change could also affect the markets for the Sponsor products by making its products more or less desirable than competing sources of energy. To the extent that its products are competing with higher greenhouse gas emitting energy sources, the Sponsor products would become more desirable in the market with more stringent limitations on greenhouse gas emissions. In August 2015, the EPA issued standards designed to limit GHG emissions from new power plants as well as the Clean Power Plan aimed at reducing GHG emissions from existing power plants. In February 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the Clean Power Plan pending judicial review, and President Trump has been vocal in opposition to the Clean Power Plan. In October 2017, following a review directed by President Trump Energy Independence Executive Order, the EPA proposed to repeal the Clean Power Plan regulations. To the extent that its products are competing with lower greenhouse gas emitting energy, the Sponsor products would become less desirable in the market with more stringent limitations on greenhouse gas emissions. The Sponsor cannot predict with any certainty at this time how these possibilities may affect its operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could adversely affect or delay demand for the oil or natural gas produced by the Sponsor or otherwise cause the Sponsor to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. National Environmental Policy Act. Oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activities on federal lands are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act, as amended ( NEPA ). NEPA requires federal agencies, including the Department of the Interior, to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an Environmental Assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed Environmental Impact Statement that may be made available for public review and comment. However, for those current activities as well as for future or proposed exploration and development plans on federal lands, governmental permits or authorizations that are subject to the requirements of NEPA are required. This process has the potential to delay the development of oil and natural gas projects. Endangered Species Act. The federal Endangered Species Act and similar state statutes restrict activities that may affect endangered and threatened species or their habitats. The presence of endangered species or designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species could cause the Sponsor to incur additional costs or become subject to operating delays, restrictions or bans in the affected areas. Employee health and safety. The operations of the Sponsor are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act ( OSHA ) and comparable state statutes, whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community right to know regulations under Title III of the federal Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act and comparable state statutes require that information be maintained concerning hazardous materials used or produced in operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. Where You Can Find Other Information We maintain a website at http www.permianvilleroyaltytrust.com. The Trust filings under the Exchange Act are available at our website and are also available electronically from the website maintained by the SEC at http www.sec.gov. In addition, the Trust will provide electronic copies of its recent filings free of charge to the Trust unitholders upon request to the Trustee. 12 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. Prices of oil and natural gas fluctuate, and lower prices could reduce proceeds to the Trust and cash distributions to unitholders. The Trust reserves and monthly cash distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of oil and natural gas. Oil and natural gas prices can fluctuate widely on a month to month basis in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust and the Sponsor. These factors include, among others regional, domestic and foreign supply and perceptions of supply of oil and natural gas; the level of demand and perceptions of demand for oil and natural gas; political conditions or hostilities in oil and natural gas producing regions; anticipated future prices of oil and natural gas and other commodities; weather conditions and seasonal trends; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; U.S. and worldwide economic conditions; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities; the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials; governmental regulations and taxation; energy conservation and environmental measures; and acts of force majeure. Lower oil and natural gas prices will reduce profits to which the Trust is entitled and may ultimately reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that is economically viable to produce from the Underlying Properties. As a result, the operators of the Underlying Properties could determine during periods of low commodity prices to shut in or curtail production from wells on the Underlying Properties, or even plug and abandon marginal wells that otherwise may have been allowed to continue to produce for a longer period under conditions of higher prices. Specifically, an operator may abandon any well or property if it reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce oil or natural gas in commercially paying quantities. This could result in termination of the Net Profits Interest relating to the aband1d well or property. The Underlying Properties are sensitive to decreasing commodity prices. The commodity price sensitivity is due to a variety of factors that vary from well to well, including the costs associated with water handling and disposal, chemicals, surface equipment maintenance, downhole casing repairs and reservoir pressure maintenance activities that are necessary to maintain production. As a result, decreasing commodity prices may cause the expenses of certain wells to exceed the well revenue, in which case the operator may decide to shut in the well or plug and abandon the well. This scenario could reduce future cash distributions to Trust unitholders. The Sponsor has not entered into any hedge contracts relating to oil and natural gas volumes expected to be produced, and the terms of the Conveyance of the Net Profits Interest prohibit the Sponsor from entering into new hedging arrangements burdening the Trust. As a result, all production in which the Trust has an interest is unhedged, and the amount of the cash distributions is subject to the possibility of greater fluctuations due to changes in oil and natural gas prices. Actual reserves and future production may be less than current estimates, which could reduce cash distributions by the Trust and the value of the Trust Units. The value of the Trust Units and the amount of future cash distributions to the Trust unitholders will depend upon, among other things, the accuracy of the reserves and future production estimated to be attributable to the Trust interest in the Underlying Properties. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil and natural gas in an exact way, and estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. Ultimately, actual production and revenues for the Underlying Properties could vary both positively and negatively and in material amounts from estimates. Furthermore, direct operating expenses and development expenses relating to the Underlying Properties could be substantially higher than current estimates. Petroleum engineers are required to make subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas based on factors and assumptions that include historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas; oil and natural gas prices, production levels, Btu content, production expenses, transportation costs, severance and excise taxes and development expenses; and the assumed effect of expected governmental regulation and future tax rates. Changes in these assumptions and amounts of actual direct operating expenses and development expenses could materially decrease reserve estimates. In addition, the quantities of recovered reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties may decrease in the future as a result of future decreases in the price of oil or natural gas. The reserve report estimating the Trust proved reserves, future production and income attributable to the Trust interests in the Underlying Properties as of December 31, 2018 was prepared, in accordance with applicable regulations, using an average of the NYMEX first day of the month commodity price during the 12 month period ending on December 31, 2018 as required by the SEC. The applicable prices for 2018 were $65.56 per Bbl of oil and $310 per Mcf of natural gas. 13 Table of Contents Third party operators are the operators of substantially all of the wells on the Underlying Properties and, therefore, the Sponsor is not in a position to control the timing of development efforts, the associated costs or the rate of production of the reserves on such properties. As of December 31, 2018, substantially all of the wells on the Underlying Properties were operated by third party operators. As a result, the Sponsor has limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks or costs associated with, the operations of these properties. The failure of a third party operator to adequately or efficiently perform operations, a third party operator breach of the applicable operating agreements or a third party operator failure to act in ways that are in the Sponsor or the Trust best interests could reduce production and revenues. Further, n1 of the third party operators of the Underlying Properties is obligated to undertake any development activities, so any development and production activities will be subject to their reasonable discretion. The success and timing of drilling and development activities on properties operated by the third party operators, therefore, depends on a number of factors that will be largely outside of the Sponsor control, including the timing and amount of capital expenditures, which could be significantly more than anticipated; the availability of suitable drilling equipment, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel; the third party operators expertise, operating efficiency and financial resources; approval of other participants in drilling wells; the selection of technology; the selection of counterparties for the sale of production; and the rate of production of the reserves. The third party operators may elect not to undertake development activities, or may undertake such activities in an unanticipated fashion, which may result in significant fluctuations in capital expenditures and amounts available for distribution to Trust unitholders. Following the Sale Transaction, some third party operators of the Underlying Properties have encountered delays in transitioning their reporting processes from Enduro to the Sponsor. As a result of such delays, production and revenues with respect to certain periods may be lower than expected, which would adversely affect amounts available for distribution to unitholders during this transition period. As delayed payments are received by the Sponsor, amounts available for distribution to unitholders may increase in certain months; however, such increased amounts would not be indicative of distributions that may be received in the future. Developing oil and natural gas wells and producing oil and natural gas are costly and high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect future production from the Underlying Properties. Any delays, reductions or cancellations in development and producing activities could decrease revenues that are available for distribution to Trust unitholders. The process of developing oil and natural gas wells and producing oil and natural gas on the Underlying Properties is subject to numerous risks beyond the Trust s, the Sponsor and the third party operators control, including risks that could delay the operators current drilling or production schedule and the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. The ability of the operators to carry out operations or to finance planned development expenses could be materially and adversely affected by any factor that may curtail, delay, reduce or cancel development and production, including reductions in oil or natural gas prices; delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements, including permitting; unusual or unexpected geological formations; shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities; lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines; equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; market limitations for oil or natural gas; pipe or cement failures; casing collapses; lost or damaged drilling and service tools; loss of drilling fluid circulation; uncontrollable flows of oil and natural gas, inert gas, water or drilling fluids; fires and natural disasters; environmental hazards, such as oil and natural gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; adverse weather conditions; and oil or natural gas property title problems. If planned operations, including drilling of development wells, are delayed or cancelled, or if existing wells or development wells experience production below anticipated levels due to 1 or more of the foregoing factors or for any other reason, estimated future distributions to Trust unitholders may be reduced. If an operator incurs increased costs due to 1 or more of the foregoing factors or for any other reason and is unable to recover such costs from insurance, estimated future distributions to Trust unitholders may be reduced. 14 Table of Contents The Trust is passive in nature and neither the Trust nor the Trust unitholders have any ability to influence the Sponsor or control the operations or development of the Underlying Properties. The Trust Units are a passive investment that entitles the Trust unitholder to only receive cash distributions from the Net Profits Interest. Trust unitholders have no voting rights with respect to the Sponsor and, therefore, have no managerial, contractual or other ability to influence the Sponsor or the third party operators activities or the operations of the Underlying Properties. Oil and natural gas properties are typically managed pursuant to an operating agreement among the working interest owners of oil and natural gas properties. Third party operators operate substantially all of the wells on the Underlying Properties. The typical operating agreement contains procedures whereby the owners of the working interests in the property designate 1 of the interest owners to be the operator of the property. Under these arrangements, the operator is typically responsible for making all decisions relating to drilling activities, sale of production, compliance with regulatory requirements and other matters that affect the property. Shortages of equipment, services and qualified personnel could increase costs of developing and operating the Underlying Properties and result in a reduction in the amount of cash available for distribution to the Trust unitholders. The demand for qualified and experienced personnel to conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling rigs and other equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. Shortages of field personnel and equipment or price increases could hinder the ability of the operators of the Underlying Properties to conduct the operations which they currently have planned for the Underlying Properties, which would reduce the amount of cash received by the Trust and available for distribution to the Trust unitholders. The Trust Units may lose value as a result of title deficiencies with respect to the Underlying Properties. Enduro acquired the Underlying Properties through various acquisitions in late 2010 and early 2011 The Sponsor acquired Enduro interests in the Underlying Properties pursuant to the Sale Transaction that closed in August 2018. The existence of a material title deficiency with respect to the Underlying Properties could reduce the value of a property or render it worthless, thus adversely affecting the Net Profits Interest and the distributions to Trust unitholders. The Sponsor does not obtain title insurance covering mineral leaseholds, and the Sponsor failure to cure any title defects may cause the Sponsor to lose its rights to production from the Underlying Properties. If a material title problem were to arise, profits available for distribution to Trust unitholders, and the value of the Trust Units, may be reduced. The Sponsor may transfer all or a portion of the Underlying Properties at any time without Trust unitholder consent, subject to specified limitations. The Sponsor at any time may transfer all or part of the Underlying Properties, subject to and burdened by the Net Profits Interest, and may, along with the third party operators, abandon individual wells or properties reasonably believed to be not economically viable. Trust unitholders will not be entitled to vote on any transfer or abandonment of the Underlying Properties, and the Trust will not receive any profits from any such transfer, except in the limited circumstances when the Net Profits Interest is released in connection with such transfer, in which case the Trust will receive an amount equal to the fair market value (net of sales costs) of the Net Profits Interest released. Following any sale or transfer of any of the Underlying Properties, if the Net Profits Interest is not released in connection with such sale or transfer, the Net Profits Interest will continue to burden the transferred property and net profits attributable to such property will be calculated as part of the computation of net profits. The Sponsor may delegate to the transferee responsibility for all of the Sponsor obligations relating to the Net Profits Interest on the portion of the Underlying Properties transferred. In addition, the Sponsor may, without the consent of the Trust unitholders, require the Trustee to release the Net Profits Interest associated with any lease that accounts for 0.25% or less of the total production from the Underlying Properties in the prior 12 months and provided that the Net Profits Interest covered by such releases cannot exceed, during any 12 month period, an aggregate fair market value to the Trust of $500,000. These releases will be made only in connection with a sale by the Sponsor to a non affiliate of the relevant Underlying Properties and are conditi1d upon an amount equal to the fair market value of such Net Profits Interest being treated as an offset amount against costs and expenses. In January 2019, the Sponsor sold 2 producing wells and associated acreage of the Underlying Properties under this provision for a sale price of approximately $62,000, and the Trustee released such properties from the Net Profits Interest The third party operators and the Sponsor may enter into farm out, operating, participation and other similar agreements to develop the property without the consent or approval of the Trustee or any Trust unitholder. The reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties are depleting assets and production from those reserves will diminish over time. Furthermore, the Trust is precluded from acquiring other oil and natural gas properties or net profits interests to replace the depleting assets and production. Therefore, proceeds to the Trust and cash distributions to Trust unitholders will decrease over time. The profits payable to the Trust attributable to the Net Profits Interest are derived from the sale of production of oil and natural gas from the Underlying Properties. The reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties are depleting assets, which means that the reserves and the quantity of oil and natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties will decline over time. Future maintenance projects on the Underlying Properties may affect the quantity of proved reserves that can be economically produced from wells on the Underlying Properties. The timing and size of these projects will depend on, among other factors, the market prices of oil and natural gas. Neither the Sponsor nor, to the Sponsor knowledge, the third party operators have a contractual obligation to develop or otherwise pay development expenses on the Underlying Properties in the future. Furthermore, with respect to properties for which the Sponsor is not designated as the operator, the Sponsor has limited control over the timing or amount of those development expenses. The Sponsor also has the right to non consent and not participate in the development expenses on properties for which it is not the operator, in which case the Sponsor and the Trust will not receive the production resulting from such development expenses. If the operators of the Underlying Properties do not implement maintenance projects when warranted, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by the Sponsor or estimated in the reserve report. The Trust Agreement provides that the Trust activities are limited to owning the Net Profits Interest and any activity reasonably related to such ownership, including activities required or permitted by the terms of the Conveyance related to the Net Profits Interest. As a result, the Trust is not permitted to acquire other oil and natural gas properties or net profits interests to replace the depleting assets and production attributable to the Net Profits Interest. Because the net profits payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets, the portion of the distributions to Trust unitholders attributable to depletion may be considered to have the effect of a return of capital as opposed to a return on investment. Eventually, the Underlying Properties burdened by the Net Profits Interest may cease to produce in commercially paying quantities and the Trust may, therefore, cease to receive any distributions of net profits therefrom. At that point the value of the Trust Units should be expected to be $0. 15 Table of Contents An increase in the differential between the price realized by the Sponsor for oil or natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties and the NYMEX or other benchmark price of oil or natural gas could reduce the profits to the Trust and, therefore, the cash distributions by the Trust and the value of Trust Units. The prices received for the Sponsor oil and natural gas production usually fall below the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX, that are used for calculating hedge positions. The difference between the price received and the benchmark price is called a basis differential. The differential may vary significantly due to market conditions, the quality and location of production and other factors. The Sponsor cannot accurately predict oil or natural gas differentials. Increases in the differential between the realized price of oil and natural gas and the benchmark price for oil and natural gas could reduce the profits to the Trust, the cash distributions by the Trust and the value of the Trust Units. The amount of cash available for distribution by the Trust will be reduced by the amount of any costs and expenses related to the Underlying Properties and other costs and expenses incurred by the Trust. The Trust will indirectly bear an 80% share of all costs and expenses related to the Underlying Properties, such as direct operating and development expenses, which will reduce the amount of cash received by the Trust and thereafter distributable to Trust unitholders. Accordingly, higher costs and expenses related to the Underlying Properties will directly decrease the amount of cash received by the Trust in respect of its Net Profits Interest. Historical costs may not be indicative of future costs. For example, the third party operators may in the future propose additional drilling projects that significantly increase the capital expenditures associated with the Underlying Properties, which could reduce cash available for distribution by the Trust. In addition, cash available for distribution by the Trust will be further reduced by the Trust general and administrative expenses. If direct operating and development expenses on the Underlying Properties together with the other costs exceed gross profits of production from the Underlying Properties, the Trust will not receive net profits from those properties until future gross profits from production exceed the total of the excess costs, plus accrued interest at the prime rate. If the Trust does not receive net profits pursuant to the Net Profits Interest, or if such net profits are reduced, the Trust will not be able to distribute cash to the Trust unitholders, or such cash distributions will be reduced, respectively. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay the costs. The generation of profits for distribution by the Trust depends in part on access to and operation of gathering, transportation and processing facilities. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities could interfere with sales of oil and natural gas production from the Underlying Properties. The amount of oil and natural gas that may be produced and sold from a well is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as by reason of weather conditions, pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, failure of tendered oil and natural gas to meet quality specifications of gathering lines or downstream transporters, excessive line pressure which prevents delivery, physical damage to the gathering system or transportation system or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments may vary from a few days to several months. In many cases, the operators of the Underlying Properties receive only limited notice, if any, as to when production will be curtailed and the duration of such curtailments. If the operators of the Underlying Properties are forced to reduce production due to such a curtailment, the revenues of the Trust and the amount of cash distributions to the Trust unitholders similarly would be reduced due to the reduction of profits from the sale of production. Under certain circumstances, the Trustee must sell the Net Profits Interest and dissolve the Trust prior to the expected termination of the Trust. As a result, Trust unitholders may not recover their investment. The Trustee must sell the Net Profits Interest and dissolve the Trust if the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Trust Units approve the sale or vote to dissolve the Trust. The Trustee must also sell the Net Profits Interest and dissolve the Trust if the annual cash proceeds received by the Trust attributable to the Net Profits Interest are less than $2 million for each of any 2 consecutive years. The net profits of any such sale will be distributed to the Trust unitholders. The Sponsor may sell Trust Units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the Trust Units. The Sponsor holds an aggregate of 8,600,000 Trust Units. The Sponsor may sell Trust Units in the public or private markets, and any such sales could have an adverse impact on the price of the Trust Units. The Trust has granted registration rights to the Sponsor, which, if exercised, would facilitate sales of Trust Units by the Sponsor. The trading price for the Trust Units may not reflect the value of the Net Profits Interest held by the Trust. The trading price for publicly traded securities similar to the Trust Units tends to be tied to recent and expected levels of cash distributions. The amounts available for distribution by the Trust vary in response to numerous factors outside the control of the Trust, including prevailing prices for sales of oil and natural gas production from the Underlying Properties and the timing and amount of direct operating expenses and development expenses. Consequently, the market price for the Trust Units may not necessarily be indicative of the value that the Trust would realize if it sold the Net Profits Interest to a third party buyer. In addition, the market price may not necessarily reflect the fact that since the assets of the Trust are depleting assets, a portion of each cash distribution paid with respect to the Trust Units should be considered by investors as a return of capital, with the remainder being considered as a return on investment. As a result, distributions made to a Trust unitholder over the life of these depleting assets may not equal or exceed the purchase price paid by the Trust unitholder. 16 Table of Contents Conflicts of interest could arise between the Sponsor and its affiliates, on the 1 hand, and the Trust and the Trust unitholders, on the other hand. As working interest owners in, and the operators of certain wells on, the Underlying Properties, the Sponsor and its affiliates could have interests that conflict with the interests of the Trust and the Trust unitholders. For example The Sponsor interests may conflict with those of the Trust and the Trust unitholders in situations involving the development, maintenance, operation or abandonment of certain wells on the Underlying Properties for which the Sponsor acts as the operator. The Sponsor also may make decisions with respect to development expenses that adversely affect the Underlying Properties. These decisions include reducing development expenses on properties for which the Sponsor acts as the operator, which could cause oil and natural gas production to decline at a faster rate and thereby result in lower cash distributions by the Trust in the future. The Sponsor may sell some or all of the Underlying Properties without taking into consideration the interests of the Trust unitholders. Such sales may not be in the best interests of the Trust unitholders. These purchasers may lack the Sponsor experience or its credi2rthiness. The Sponsor also has the right, under certain circumstances, to cause the Trustee to release all or a portion of the Net Profits Interest in connection with a sale of a portion of the Underlying Properties to which such Net Profits Interest relates. In such an event, the Trust is entitled to receive the fair value (net of sales costs) of the Net Profits Interest released. The Sponsor may sell its Trust Units without considering the effects such sale may have on Trust Unit prices or on the Trust itself. Additionally, the Sponsor can vote its Trust Units in its sole discretion without considering the interests of the other Trust unitholders. The Sponsor is not a fiduciary with respect to the Trust unitholders or the Trust and does not owe any fiduciary duties or liabilities to the Trust unitholders or the Trust. The Trust is administered by a Trustee who cannot be replaced except by a majority vote of the Trust unitholders at a special meeting which may make it difficult for Trust unitholders to remove or replace the Trustee. The affairs of the Trust are administered by the Trustee. The voting rights of a Trust unitholder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Trust unitholders or for an annual or other periodic re election of the Trustee. The Trust Agreement provides that the Trustee may only be removed and replaced by the holders of a majority of the Trust Units present in person or by proxy at a meeting of such holders where a quorum is present, including Trust Units held by the Sponsor, called by either the Trustee or the holders of not less than 10% of the outstanding Trust Units. As a result, it will be difficult for public Trust unitholders to remove or replace the Trustee without the cooperation of holders of a significant percentage of total Trust Units. Trust unitholders have limited ability to enforce provisions of the Net Profits Interest, and the Sponsor liability to the Trust is limited. The Trust Agreement permits the Trustee to sue the Sponsor or any other future owner of the Underlying Properties to enforce the terms of the Conveyance creating the Net Profits Interest. If the Trustee does not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of the Conveyance, Trust unitholders recourse would be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the Trustee to compel the Trustee to take specified actions. The Trust Agreement expressly limits a Trust unitholder ability to directly sue the Sponsor or any other third party other than the Trustee. As a result, Trust unitholders will not be able to sue the Sponsor or any future owner of the Underlying Properties to enforce these rights. Furthermore, the Conveyance provides that, except as set forth in the Conveyance, the Sponsor will not be liable to the Trust for the manner in which it performs its duties in operating the Underlying Properties as long as it acts without gross negligence or willful misconduct. Courts outside of Delaware may not recognize the limited liability of the Trust unitholders provided under Delaware law. Under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, Trust unitholders will be entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of corporations for profit under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. The courts in jurisdictions outside of Delaware, however, might not give effect to such limitation. The operations of the Underlying Properties are subject to environmental laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting operations on them or result in significant costs and liabilities, which could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders. The oil and natural gas exploration and production operations on the Underlying Properties are subject to stringent and comprehensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that apply to the operations on the Underlying Properties, including the requirement to obtain a permit before conducting drilling, waste disposal or other regulated activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentrations of materials that can be released into the environment; restrictions on water withdrawal and use; the incurrence of significant development expenses to install pollution or safety related controls at the operated facilities; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. For example, the EPA has published regulations that impose more stringent emissions control requirements for oil and gas development and production operations, which may require us, our operators, or third party contractors to incur additional expenses to control air emissions from current operations and during new well developments by installing emissions control technologies and adhering to a variety of work practice and other requirements. For example, in 2012 the EPA adopted federal New Source Performance Standards ( NSPS ) that require the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from certain fractured and refractured natural gas wells for which well completion operations are conducted and further require that most wells use reduced emission completions, also known as green completions. These regulations also establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from production related wet seal and reciprocating compressors, and from pneumatic controllers and storage vessels. In June 2016, the EPA published a final rule adopting additional NSPS requirements for new, modified, or reconstructed oil and gas facilities that require control of the greenhouse gas methane from affected facilities, including requirements to find and repair fugitive leaks of methane emissions at well sites ( Methane Rule ). Following the 2016 presidential election and change in administrations, in 2017 the EPA proposed to delay implementation of the Methane Rule and also convened a reconsideration proceeding that resulted in 2 2018 rulemaking projects aimed at rolling back certain Methane Rule requirements. These actions, like the Methane Rule itself, have been (or are likely to be) challenged in courts. The ultimate fate of the Methane Rule requirements is unclear. Nevertheless, regulations promulgated under the CAA may require the Sponsor to incur development expenses to install and utilize specific equipment, technologies, or work practices to control emissions from its operations, which could reduce the profits available to the Trust and potentially impair the economic development of the Underlying Properties. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often times requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations; and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of the operations on the Underlying Properties. Furthermore, the inability to comply with environmental laws and regulations in a cost effective manner, such as removal and disposal of produced water and other generated oil and gas wastes, could impair the operators ability to produce oil and natural gas commercially from the Underlying Properties, which would reduce profits attributable to the Net Profits Interest. 17 Table of Contents There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the operations on the Underlying Properties as a result of the handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, air emissions and wastewater discharges related to operations, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, the operators could be subject to joint and several strict liability for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether such operators were responsible for the release or contamination or whether the operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which wells are drilled and facilities where petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. In addition, the risk of accidental spills or releases could expose the operators of the Underlying Properties to significant liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on the operators businesses, financial condition and results of operations and could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly operational control requirements or waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require the operators of the Underlying Properties to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. The Trust will indirectly bear 80% of all costs and expenses paid by the Sponsor, including those related to environmental compliance and liabilities associated with the Underlying Properties, including costs and liabilities resulting from conditions that existed prior to the Sponsor acquisition of the Underlying Properties unless such costs and expenses result from the operator negligence or misconduct. In addition, as a result of the increased cost of compliance, the operators of the Underlying Properties may decide to discontinue drilling. Neither the Sponsor nor the Trust is generally entitled to, nor required to provide, indemnity to third party operators with respect to pollution liability and associated environmental remediation costs. However, the Sponsor may be required to provide, and may be entitled to, indemnity from third party operators with respect to such liabilities and costs in the event of the other party gross negligence or misconduct. In addition, the Sponsor, as the assignee of Enduro, has agreed to assume certain environmental liabilities of prior owners of the Underlying Properties in connection with the purchase thereof. The amount of cash available for distribution by the Trust could be reduced by expenses caused by uninsured claims. The Sponsor maintains insurance coverage against potential losses that it believes is customary in its industry. The Sponsor currently maintains general liability insurance and excess liability coverage. The Sponsor excess liability coverage and general liability insurance do not have deductibles. The general liability insurance covers the Sponsor and its subsidiaries for legal and contractual liabilities arising out of bodily injury or property damage, including any resulting loss of use to third parties, and for sudden and accidental pollution or environmental liability, while the excess liability coverage is in addition to and triggered if the general liability per occurrence limit is reached. In addition, the Sponsor maintains control of well insurance with per occurrence limits depending on the status of the well and deductibles consistent with industry standards. The Sponsor general liability insurance and excess liability policies do not provide coverage with respect to legal and contractual liabilities of the Trust, and the Trust does not maintain such coverage since it is passive in nature and does not have any ability to influence the Sponsor or control the operations or development of the Underlying Properties. However, the Trust unitholders may indirectly benefit from the Sponsor insurance coverage to the extent that insurance proceeds offset or reduce any costs or expenses that are deducted when calculating the net profits attributable to the Trust. The Sponsor does not currently have any insurance policies in effect that are intended to provide coverage for losses solely related to hydraulic fracturing operations; however, the Sponsor believes its general liability and excess liability insurance policies would cover third party claims related to hydraulic fracturing operations in accordance with, and subject to, the terms of such policies. These policies may not cover fines, penalties or costs and expenses related to government mandated cleanup of pollution. In addition, these policies do not provide coverage for all liabilities, and there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage will be adequate to cover claims that may arise or that the Sponsor will be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates it considers reasonable. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could result in a significant decrease in the amount of cash available for distribution by the Trust. The Trust does not maintain any type of insurance against any of the risks of conducting oil and gas exploration and production, hydraulic fracturing operations, or related activities. The operations on the Underlying Properties are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting operations on them or expose the operator to significant liabilities, which could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders. The production and development operations on the Underlying Properties are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. To conduct their operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, the operators of the Underlying Properties must obtain and maintain numerous permits, drilling bonds, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities and engage in extensive reporting. The operators of the Underlying Properties may incur substantial costs and experience delays in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations, and the Trust will bear an 80% share of these costs. In addition, the operators costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to their operations. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on the operators business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce the amount of cash received by the Trust in respect of the Net Profits Interest. The operators of the Underlying Properties must also comply with laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and market manipulations in energy markets. To the extent the operators of the Underlying Properties are shippers on interstate pipelines, they must comply with the tariffs of such pipelines and with federal policies related to the use of interstate capacity, and such compliance costs will be borne in part by the Trust. Laws and regulations governing exploration and production may also affect production levels. The operators of the Underlying Properties are required to comply with federal and state laws and regulations governing conservation matters, including provisions related to the unitization or pooling of the oil and natural gas properties; the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells; the spacing of wells; the plugging and abandonment of wells; and the removal of related production equipment. Additionally, state and federal regulatory authorities may expand or alter applicable pipeline safety laws and regulations, compliance with which may require increase capital costs on the part of the operators and third party downstream natural gas transporters. These and other laws and regulations can limit the amount of oil and natural gas the operators can produce from their wells, limit the number of wells they can drill, or limit the locations at which they can conduct drilling operations, which in turn could negatively impact Trust distributions, estimated and actual future net revenues to the Trust and estimates of reserves attributable to the Trust interests. New laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations, may unfavorably impact the operators of the Underlying Properties and result in increased operating costs or have a material adverse effect on their financial condition and results of operations and reduce the amount of cash received by the Trust. For example, Congress is currently considering legislation that, if adopted in its proposed form, would subject companies involved in oil and natural gas exploration and production activities to, among other Item, additional regulation of and restrictions on hydraulic fracturing of wells, the elimination of certain U.S. federal tax incentives and deductions available to oil and natural gas exploration and production activities and the prohibition or additional regulation of private energy commodity derivative and hedging activities. These and other potential regulations could increase the operating costs of the Underlying Properties, reduce the operators liquidity, delay the operators operations or otherwise alter the way the operators conduct their business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Trust and the amount of cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders. 18 Table of Contents Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that the operators produce while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt their production and cause them to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. The oil and gas industry is a direct source of certain greenhouse gas ( GHG ) emissions, namely carbon dioxide and methane, and future restrictions on such emissions could impact future operations on the Underlying Properties. In December 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are contributing to the warming of the Earth atmosphere and other climate changes. Based on these findings, the agency has begun adopting and implementing regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The EPA has adopted rules that regulate emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources under the Prevention of Significant Deterioration ( PSD ) and Title V operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that already are potential major sources of certain principal, or criteria, pollutant emissions. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to meet best available control technology standards that typically are established by the states. In June 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court held that GHG al1 cannot trigger an obligation to obtain an air permit. However, the Supreme Court upheld EPA authority to regulate GHG emissions from stationary sources, concluding sources that trigger air permitting requirements based on their traditional criteria pollutant emissions must include a limit for GHG in their permit. These EPA rules could affect the operations on the Underlying Properties or the ability of the operators of the Underlying Properties to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities. In June 2016, the EPA published a final rule adopting New Source Performance Standards ( NSPS ) for new, modified, or reconstructed oil and gas facilities that require control of the GHG methane from affected facilities, including requirements to find and repair fugitive leaks of methane emissions at well sites ( Methane Rule ). Following the 2016 presidential election and change in administrations, in 2017 the EPA proposed to delay implementation of the Methane Rule, and also convened a reconsideration proceeding that resulted in 2 2018 rulemaking projects aimed at rolling back certain Methane Rule requirements. These actions, like the Methane Rule itself, have been (or are likely to be) challenged in courts. The ultimate fate of the Methane Rule requirements is unclear. Nevertheless, regulations promulgated under the CAA may require the Sponsor to incur development expenses to install and utilize specific equipment, technologies, or work practices to control emissions from its operations. In addition, in November 2016, the U.S. Department of the Interior Bureau of Land Management ( BLM ) issued final rules to reduce methane emissions from venting, flaring, and leaks during oil and gas operations on federal and tribal lands that are substantially similar to the EPA Methane Rule. However, on December 8, 2017, the BLM published a final rule to temporarily suspend or delay certain requirements contained in the November 2016 final rule until January 2019, including those requirements relating to venting, flaring and leakage from oil and gas production activities. Further, in September 2018, the BLM published a final rule to revise or rescind certain provisions of the 2016 rule. While the future implementation of the EPA and BLM rules aimed at controlling GHG emissions from oil and natural gas sources remains uncertain, future federal GHG regulations for the oil and gas industry remain a possibility given the long term trend towards increasing regulation, and the Underlying Properties may be subject to these requirements or become subject to them in the future. In addition, from time to time the U.S. Congress has from considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and many states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. These reductions would be expected to cause the cost of allowances to escalate significantly over time. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of GHGs or otherwise limits emissions of GHGs from the equipment or operations of the operators of the Underlying Properties could require the operators to incur costs to monitor and report on GHG emissions or reduce emissions of GHGs associated with their operations. Such requirements could also adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas produced, all of which could reduce profits attributable to the Net Profits Interest and, as a result, the Trust cash available for distribution. Because regulation of GHG emissions is relatively new, further regulatory, legislative and judicial developments are likely to occur. Such developments may affect how these GHG initiatives will impact the operators of the Underlying Properties and the Trust. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts and floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the operators assets and operations and, consequently, may reduce profits attributable to the Net Profits Interest and, as a result, the Trust cash available for distribution. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays as well as adversely affect the services of the operators of the Underlying Properties. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. However, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing. In December 2016 the EPA issued a final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The report did not find widespread, systematic impacts to drinking water from hydraulic fracturing; at the same time, the report acknowledged information gaps that limited EPA ability to fully assess the potential impacts to drinking water resources. In 2012 the EPA adopted federal New Source Performance Standards ( NSPS ) that require the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from certain fractured and refractured natural gas wells for which well completion operations are conducted and further require that most wells use reduced emission completions, also known as green completions. These regulations also establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from production related wet seal and reciprocating compressors, and from pneumatic controllers and storage vessels. In June 2016, the EPA published a final rule adopting additional NSPS requirements for new, modified, or reconstructed oil and gas facilities that require control of the greenhouse gas methane from affected facilities, including requirements to find and repair fugitive leaks of methane emissions at well sites ( Methane Rule ). Following the 2016 presidential election and change in administrations, in 2017 the EPA proposed to delay implementation of the Methane Rule and also convened a reconsideration proceeding that resulted in 2 2018 rulemaking projects aimed at rolling back certain Methane Rule requirements. These actions, like the Methane Rule itself, have been, or are likely to be, challenged in courts. The ultimate fate of the Methane Rule requirements is unclear. Nevertheless, regulations promulgated under the CAA may require the Sponsor to incur development expenses to install and utilize specific equipment, technologies, or work practices to control emissions from its operations, which could reduce the profits available to the Trust and potentially impair the economic development of the Underlying Properties. Some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict or impose additional requirements relating to hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, including the disclosure of information regarding the substances used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Such federal or state legislation could require the disclosure of chemical constituents used in the fracturing process to state or federal regulatory authorities who could then make such information publicly available. Disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process could make it easier for third parties opposing hydraulic fracturing to initiate legal proceedings against producers and service providers based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing is regulated at the federal level, the Sponsor and the third party operators fracturing activities could become subject to additional permit requirements or operational restrictions and also to associated permitting delays and potential increases in costs. In December 2014, the Governor of New York announced that the state would maintain its moratorium on hydraulic fracturing in the state. Further, some local governments, including in Texas, have imposed moratoria on drilling permits within city limits so that local ordinances may be reviewed to assess their adequacy to address such activities. Similar measures might be considered or implemented in the jurisdictions in which the Underlying Properties are located. 19 Table of Contents If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict or otherwise impact hydraulic fracturing are passed by Congress or adopted in Texas, Louisiana or New Mexico, such legal requirements could make it more difficult or costly for the Sponsor or the third party operators to perform hydraulic fracturing activities and thereby could affect the determination of whether a well is commercially viable. In addition, restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that the operators are ultimately able to produce in commercially paying quantities from the Underlying Properties, and could increase the cycle times and costs to receive permits, delay or possibly preclude receipt of permits in certain areas, impact water usage and waste water disposal and require air emissions, water usage and chemical additives disclosures. The Sponsor ability to perform its obligations to the Trust could be limited by restrictions under its debt agreements . The Sponsor has various contractual obligations to the Trust under the Trust Agreement and Conveyance. Restrictions under the Sponsor debt agreements, including certain covenants, financial ratios and tests, could impair its ability to fulfill its obligations to the Trust. The requirement that the Sponsor comply with these restrictive covenants and financial ratios and tests may materially adversely affect its ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities it believes to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures or withstand a continuing or future downturn in its business which may, in turn, impair the Sponsor operations and its ability to perform its obligations to the Trust under the Trust Agreement and Conveyance. If the Sponsor is unable to perform its obligations to the Trust under the Trust Agreement or Conveyance, it could have a material adverse effect on the Trust. The bankruptcy of the Sponsor or any of the third party operators could impede the operation of the wells and the development of the proved undeveloped reserves. The value of the Net Profits Interest and the Trust ultimate cash available for distribution will be highly dependent on the financial condition of the operators of the Underlying Properties. N1 of the operators of the Underlying Properties, including the Sponsor, has agreed with the Trust to maintain a certain net worth or to be restricted by other similar covenants. The ability to develop and operate the Underlying Properties depends on the future financial condition and economic performance and access to capital of the operators of those properties, which in turn will depend upon the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of the Sponsor and the third party operators. The Sponsor is not a reporting company and is not required to file periodic reports with the SEC pursuant to the Exchange Act. Therefore, Trust unitholders do not have access to financial information about the Sponsor. In the event of the bankruptcy of an operator of the Underlying Properties, the working interest owners in the affected properties will have to seek a new party to perform the development and the operations of the affected wells. The working interest owners may not be able to find a replacement driller or operator, and they may not be able to enter into a new agreement with such replacement party on favorable terms within a reasonable period of time. As a result, such a bankruptcy may result in reduced production from the reserves and decreased distributions to Trust unitholders. In the event of the bankruptcy of the Sponsor, if a court were to hold that the Net Profits Interest was part of the bankruptcy estate, the Trust may be treated as an unsecured creditor with respect to the Net Profits Interest attributable to properties in Louisiana and New Mexico. The Sponsor and the Trust believe that, in a bankruptcy of the Sponsor, the Net Profits Interest would be viewed as a separate property interest under Texas law and, as such, outside of the Sponsor bankruptcy estate. However, to the extent that were not the case, or to the extent Louisiana or New Mexico law were held to be applicable, the Net Profits Interest might be considered an asset of the bankruptcy estate and used to satisfy obligations to creditors of the Sponsor, in which case the Trust would be an unsecured creditor of the Sponsor at risk of losing the entire value of the Net Profits Interest to senior creditors. Adverse developments in Texas, Louisiana or New Mexico could adversely impact the results of operations and cash flows of the Underlying Properties and reduce the amount of cash available for distributions to Trust unitholders. The operations of the Underlying Properties are focused on the production and development of oil and natural gas within the states of Texas, Louisiana and New Mexico. As a result, the results of operations and cash flows of the Underlying Properties depend upon continuing operations in these areas. This concentration could disproportionately expose the Trust interests to operational and regulatory risk in these areas. Due to the lack of diversification in geographic location, adverse developments in exploration and production of oil and natural gas in any of these areas of operation could have a significantly greater impact on the results of operations and cash flows of the Underlying Properties than if the operations were more diversified. Cyber attacks or other failures in telecommunications or information technology systems could result in information theft, data corruption and significant disruption of the Sponsor business operations. In recent years, the Sponsor has increasingly relied on information technology ( IT ) systems and ne2rks in connection with its business activities, including certain of its exploration, development and production activities. the Sponsor relies on digital technology, including information systems and related infrastructure, as well as cloud applications and services, to, among other things, estimate quantities of oil and natural gas reserves, analyze seismic and drilling information, process and record financial and operating data and communicate with employees and third parties. As dependence on digital technologies has increased, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks and attempts to gain unauthorized access to computer systems and ne2rks, have increased in frequency and sophistication. These threats pose a risk to the security of the Sponsor systems and ne2rks, the confidentiality, availability and integrity of its data and the physical security of its employees and assets. Any cyber attack could have a material adverse effect on the Sponsor reputation, competitive position, business, financial condition and results of operations, and could have a material adverse effect on the Trust. Cyber attacks or security breaches also could result in litigation or regulatory action, as well as significant additional expense to the Sponsor to implement further data protection measures. In addition to the risks presented to the Sponsor systems and ne2rks, cyber attacks affecting oil and natural gas distribution systems maintained by third parties, or the ne2rks and infrastructure on which they rely, could delay or prevent delivery to markets. A cyber attack of this nature would be outside the Sponsor ability to control, but could have a material adverse effect on the Sponsor business, financial condition and results of operations, and could have a material adverse effect on the Trust. Cyber attacks or other failures in telecommunications or IT systems could result in information theft, data corruption and significant disruption of the Trustee operations. The Trustee depends heavily upon IT systems and ne2rks in connection with its business activities. Despite a variety of security measures implemented by the Trustee, events such as the loss or theft of back up tapes or other data storage media could occur, and the Trustee computer systems could be subject to physical and electronic break ins, cyber attacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering, including threats that may come from external factors, such as governments, organized crime, hackers and third parties to whom certain functions are outsourced, or may originate internally from within the respective companies. If a cyber attack were to occur, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, the Trustee computer systems and ne2rks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of the Trust, which could result in litigation, increased costs and regulatory penalties. Although steps are taken to prevent and detect such attacks, it is possible that a cyber incident will not be discovered for some time after it occurs, which could increase exposure to these consequences. 20 Table of Contents TAX RISKS RELATED TO THE TRUST UNITS The Trust has not requested a ruling from the IRS regarding the tax treatment of the Trust. If the IRS were to determine (and be sustained in that determination) that the Trust is not a grantor trust for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Trust could be subject to more complex and costly tax reporting requirements that could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders. If the Trust were not treated as a grantor trust for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Trust should be treated as a partnership for such purposes. Although the Trust would not become subject to U.S. federal income taxation at the entity level as a result of treatment as a partnership, and Item of income, gain, loss and deduction would flow through to the Trust unitholders, the Trust tax reporting requirements would be more complex and costly to implement and maintain, and its distributions to Trust unitholders could be reduced as a result. If the Trust were treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a partnership, it likely would be subject to new audit procedures that for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, alter the procedures for auditing large partnerships and also alter the procedures for assessing and collecting income taxes due (including applicable penalties and interest) as a result of an audit. These rules effectively would impose an entity level tax on the Trust, and unitholders may have to bear the expense of the adjustment even if they were not Trust unitholders during the audited taxable year. Neither the Sponsor nor the Trustee has requested a ruling from the IRS regarding the tax status of the Trust, and neither the Sponsor nor the Trust can provide any assurance that such a ruling would be granted if requested or that the IRS will not challenge these positions on audit. Trust unitholders should be aware of the possible state tax implications of owning Trust Units. Unitholders are required to pay taxes on their share of the Trust income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from the Trust. Trust unitholders are treated as if they own the Trust assets and receive the Trust income and are directly taxable thereon as if no Trust were in existence. Because the Trust generates taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash the Trust distributes, unitholders are required to pay any U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of the Trust taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from the Trust. A unitholder may not receive cash distributions from the Trust equal to such unitholder share of the Trust taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. A portion of any tax gain on the disposition of the Trust Units could be taxed as ordinary income. If a unitholder sells Trust Units, he or she will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and his or her tax basis in those Trust Units. A substantial portion of any gain recognized may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture Item, including depletion recapture. The Trust allocates its Item of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Trust Units each month based upon the ownership of the Trust Units on the monthly record date, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Trust Unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of Item of income, gain, loss and deduction among the Trust unitholders. The Trust generally allocates its Item of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Trust Units each month based upon the ownership of the Trust Units on the monthly record date, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Trust Unit is transferred. It is possible that the IRS could disagree with this allocation method and could assert that income and deductions of the Trust should be determined and allocated on a daily or prorated basis, which could require adjustments to the tax returns of the Trust unitholders affected by the issue and result in an increase in the administrative expense of the Trust in subsequent periods. Trust unitholders should consult their tax advisors as to the specific tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of the of the Trust Units, including the applicability and effect of U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign income and other tax laws in light of their particular circumstances. 21 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. N1 Item 2 Item 2 Properties.
