CIK: 1534504
Company Name: PBF ENERGY INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-02-21
Accession Number: 0001534504-19-000012


Item 1 Business 8 Item 1A. Risk Factors 31 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 50 Item 2 Item 2 Properties 50 Item 3 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 51 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 55 I Item 5. Market for Registrant Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 56 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 60 Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 64 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 102 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 104 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 104 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 104 Item 9B. Other Information 105 II Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 106 Item 11 Item 11 Executive Compensation 106 Item 12 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 106 Item 13 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 106 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 106 V Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 107 Item 16. Form 10 K Summary SIGNATURES 2 GLOSSARY OF SELECTED TERMS Unless otherwise noted or indicated by context, the following terms used in this Annual Report on Form 10 K have the following meanings AB32 refers to the greenhouse gas emission control regulations in the state of California to comply with Assembly Bill 32 ASCI refers to the Argus Sour Crude Index, a pricing index used to approximate market prices for sour, heavy crude oil. Bakken refers to both a crude oil production region generally covering North Dakota, Montana and Western Canada, and the crude oil that is produced in that region. barrel refers to a common unit of measure in the oil industry, which equates to 42 gallons. blendstocks refers to various compounds that are combined with gasoline or diesel from the crude oil refining process to make finished gasoline and diesel; these may include natural gasoline, FCC unit gasoline, ethanol, reformate or butane, among others. bpd refers to an abbreviation for barrels per day. CAA refers to the Clean Air Act. CAM Pipeline or CAM Connection Pipeline refers to the Clovelly Alliance Meraux pipeline in Louisiana. CARB refers to the California Air Resources Board; gasoline and diesel fuel sold in the state of California are regulated by CARB and require stricter quality and emissions reduction performance than required by other states. catalyst refers to a substance that alters, accelerates, or instigates chemical changes, but is not produced as a product of the refining process. coke refers to a coal like substance that is produced from heavier crude oil fractions during the refining process. complexity refers to the number, type and capacity of processing units at a refinery, measured by the Nelson Complexity Index, which is often used as a measure of a refinery ability to process lower quality crude in an economic manner. crack spread refers to a simplified calculation that measures the difference between the price for light products and crude oil. For example, we reference (a) the 2 1 1 crack spread, which is a general industry standard utilized by our Delaware City, Paulsboro and Chalmette refineries that approximates the per barrel refining margin resulting from processing 2 barrels of crude oil to produce 1 barrel of gasoline and 1 barrel of heating oil or ULSD and (b) the 4 3 1 crack spread, which is a benchmark utilized by our Toledo and Torrance refineries that approximates the per barrel refining margin resulting from processing four barrels of crude oil to produce 3 barrels of gasoline and 1 half barrel of jet fuel and 1 half barrel of ULSD. Dated Brent refers to Brent blend oil, a light, sweet North Sea crude oil, characterized by an API gravity of 38 and a sulfur content of approximately 0.4 weight percent that is used as a benchmark for other crude oils. distillates refers primarily to diesel, heating oil, kerosene and jet fuel. 3 DNREC refers to the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control. downstream refers to the downstream sector of the energy industry generally describing oil refineries, marketing and distribution companies that refine crude oil and sell and distribute refined products. The opposite of the downstream sector is the upstream sector, which refers to exploration and production companies that search for and or produce crude oil and natural gas underground or through drilling or exploratory wells. EPA refers to the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Ethanol Permit refers to a Coastal Z1 Act permit for ethanol. ethanol refers to a clear, colorless, flammable oxygenated liquid. Ethanol is typically produced chemically from ethylene, or biologically from fermentation of various sugars from carbohydrates found in agricultural crops. It is used in the United States as a gasoline octane enhancer and oxygenate. feedstocks refers to crude oil and partially refined petroleum products that are processed and blended into refined products. FASB refers to the Financial Accounting Standards Board which develops U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. FCC refers to fluid catalytic cracking. FCU refers to fluid coking unit. FERC refers to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. GAAP refers to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles developed by the Financial Accounting Standards Board for nongovernmental entities. GHG refers to the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide. Group I base oils or lubricants refers to conventionally refined products characterized by sulfur content less than 0.03% with a viscosity index between 80 and 120. Typically, these products are used in a variety of automotive and industrial applications. heavy crude oil refers to a relatively inexpensive crude oil with a low API gravity characterized by high relative density and viscosity. Heavy crude oils require greater levels of processing to produce high value products such as gasoline and diesel. IDRs refers to incentive distribution rights. IPO refers to the initial public offering of PBF Energy Class A common stock which closed on December 18, 2012 J. Aron refers to J. Aron & Company, a subsidiary of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. KV refers to Kilovolts. LCM refers to a GAAP requirement for inventory to be valued at the lower of cost or market. light crude oil refers to a relatively expensive crude oil with a high API gravity characterized by low relative density and viscosity. Light crude oils require lower levels of processing to produce high value products such as gasoline and diesel. 4 light products refers to the group of refined products with lower boiling temperatures, including gasoline and distillates. light heavy differential refers to the price difference between light crude oil and heavy crude oil. LLS refers to Light Louisiana Sweet benchmark for crude oil reflective of Gulf coast economics for light sweet domestic and foreign crudes. LPG refers to liquefied petroleum gas. Maya refers to Maya crude oil, a heavy, sour crude oil characterized by an API gravity of approximately 22 and a sulfur content of approximately 33 weight percent that is used as a benchmark for other heavy crude oils. MLP refers to the master limited partnership. MMBTU refers to million British thermal units. MMSCFD refers to million standard cubic feet per day. MOEM Pipeline refers to a pipeline that originates at a terminal in Empire, Louisiana approximately 30 miles north of the mouth of the Mississippi River. The MOEM Pipeline is 14 inches in diameter, 54 miles long and transports crude from South Louisiana to the Chalmette refinery and transports Heavy Louisiana Sweet (HLS) and South Louisiana Intermediate (SLI) crude. MW refers to Megawatt. Nelson Complexity Index refers to the complexity of an oil refinery as measured by the Nelson Complexity Index, which is calculated on an annual basis by the Oil and Gas Journal. The Nelson Complexity Index assigns a complexity factor to each major piece of refinery equipment based on its complexity and cost in comparison to crude distillation, which is assigned a complexity factor of 10. The complexity of each piece of refinery equipment is then calculated by multiplying its complexity factor by its throughput ratio as a percentage of crude distillation capacity. Adding up the complexity values assigned to each piece of equipment, including crude distillation, determines a refinery complexity on the Nelson Complexity Index. A refinery with a complexity of 10.0 on the Nelson Complexity Index is considered ten times more complex than crude distillation for the same amount of throughput. NYH refers to the New York Harbor market value of petroleum products. NYMEX refers to the New York Mercantile Exchange. NYSE refers to the New York Stock Exchange. PADD refers to Petroleum Administration for Defense Districts. Platts refers to Platts, a division of The McGraw Hill Companies. PPM refers to parts per million. RINS refers to renewable fuel credits required for compliance with the Renewable Fuel Standard. refined products refers to petroleum products, such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, that are produced by a refinery. sour crude oil refers to a crude oil that is relatively high in sulfur content, requiring additional processing to remove the sulfur. Sour crude oil is typically less expensive than sweet crude oil. 5 Saudi Aramco refers to Saudi Arabian Oil Company. SEC refers to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Sunoco refers to Sunoco, LLC. sweet crude oil refers to a crude oil that is relatively low in sulfur content, requiring less processing to remove the sulfur than sour crude oil. Sweet crude oil is typically more expensive than sour crude oil. Syncrude refers to a blend of Canadian synthetic oil, a light, sweet crude oil, typically characterized by API gravity between 30 and 32 and a sulfur content of approximately 0.1 0.2 weight percent. TCJA refers to the U.S. government comprehensive tax legislation enacted on December 22, 2017 and commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. throughput refers to the volume processed through a unit or refinery. turnaround refers to a periodically required shutdown and comprehensive maintenance event to refurbish and maintain a refinery unit or units that involves the inspection of such units and occurs generally on a periodic cycle. ULSD refers to ultra low sulfur diesel. Valero refers to Valero Energy Corporation. WCS refers to Western Canadian Select, a heavy, sour crude oil blend typically characterized by API gravity between 20 and 22 and a sulfur content of approximately 35 weight percent that is used as a benchmark for heavy Western Canadian crude oil. WTI refers to West Texas Intermediate crude oil, a light, sweet crude oil, typically characterized by API gravity between 38 and 40 and a sulfur content of approximately 0.3 weight percent that is used as a benchmark for other crude oils. WTS refers to West Texas Sour crude oil, a sour crude oil characterized by API gravity between 30 and 33 and a sulfur content of approximately 128 weight percent that is used as a benchmark for other sour crude oils. yield refers to the percentage of refined products that is produced from crude oil and other feedstocks. Explanatory Note This Annual Report on Form 10 K is filed by PBF Energy Inc. ( PBF Energy ) and PBF Energy Company LLC ( PBF LLC ). Each Registrant hereto is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this report that relates to such Registrant. Each Registrant hereto is not filing any information that does not relate to such Registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information. PBF Energy is a holding company whose primary asset is an equity interest in PBF LLC. PBF Energy is the sole managing member of, and owner of an equity interest representing approximately 99.0% of the outstanding economic interests in PBF LLC as of December 31, 2018 . PBF Energy operates and controls all of the business and affairs and consolidates the financial results of PBF LLC and its subsidiaries. PBF LLC is a holding company for the companies that directly and indirectly own and operate the business. As of December 31, 2018 , PBF LLC also holds a 44.0% limited partner interest, a non economic general partner interest and all of the incentive distribution rights in PBFX, a publicly traded master limited partnership ( MLP ). 6 This Annual Report on Form 10 K is filed by PBF Energy and PBF LLC. Discussions or areas of this report that either apply only to PBF Energy or PBF LLC are clearly noted in such sections. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms Company , we, us, and our refer to both PBF Energy and PBF LLC and its consolidated subsidiaries, including PBF Holding Company LLC ( PBF Holding ), PBF Investments LLC ( PBF Investments ), Toledo Refining Company LLC ( Toledo Refining or TRC ), Paulsboro Refining Company LLC ( Paulsboro Refining or PRC ), Delaware City Refining Company LLC ( Delaware City Refining or DCR ), Chalmette Refining, L.L.C. ( Chalmette Refining ), PBF Western Region LLC ( PBF Western Region ), Torrance Refining Company LLC ( Torrance Refining ), Torrance Logistics Company LLC ( Torrance Logistics ), PBF Logistics GP LLC ( PBF GP ) and PBF Logistics LP ( PBFX ). In this Annual Report on Form 10 K, we make certain forward looking statements, including statements regarding our plans, strategies, objectives, expectations, intentions, and resources, under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 to the extent such statements relate to the operations of an entity that is not a limited liability company or a partnership. You should read our forward looking statements together with our disclosures under the heading Cautionary Statement for the Purpose of Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When considering forward looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10 K under Risk Factors in Item 1A. 7 ITEM. 1 BUSINESS Overview and Corporate Structure We are 1 of the largest independent petroleum refiners and suppliers of unbranded transportation fuels, heating oil, petrochemical feedstocks, lubricants and other petroleum products in the United States. We sell our products throughout the Northeast, Midwest, Gulf Coast and West Coast of the United States, as well as in other regions of the United States, Canada and Mexico and are able to ship products to other international destinations. We were formed in 2008 to pursue acquisitions of crude oil refineries and downstream assets in North America. As of December 31, 2018 , we own and operate five domestic oil refineries and related assets, which we acquired in 2010, 2011, 2015 and 2016. Our refineries have a combined processing capacity, known as throughput, of approximately 900,000 barrels per day ( bpd ), and a weighted average Nelson Complexity Index of 122 We operate in 2 reportable business segments Refining and Logistics. PBF Energy was formed on November 7, 2011 and is a holding company whose primary asset is a controlling equity interest in PBF LLC. We are the sole managing member of PBF LLC and operate and control all of the business and affairs of PBF LLC. We consolidate the financial results of PBF LLC and its subsidiaries and record a noncontrolling interest in our consolidated financial statements representing the economic interests of the members of PBF LLC other than PBF Energy. PBF LLC is a holding company for the companies that directly or indirectly own and operate our business. PBF Holding is a wholly owned subsidiary of PBF LLC and is the parent company for our refining operations. PBF Energy, through its ownership of PBF LLC, also consolidates the financial results of PBFX and records a noncontrolling interest for the economic interests in PBFX held by the public common unitholders of PBFX. As of December 31, 2018 , PBF Energy held 119,895,422 PBF LLC Series C Units and our current and former executive officers and directors and certain employees and others held 1,206,325 PBF LLC Series A Units (we refer to all of the holders of the PBF LLC Series A Units as the members of PBF LLC other than PBF Energy ). As a result, the holders of PBF Energy issued and outstanding shares of its Class A common stock have approximately 99.0% of the voting power in PBF Energy, and the members of PBF LLC other than PBF Energy through their holdings of Class B common stock have approximately 10% of the voting power in PBF Energy. On May 14, 2014, PBFX completed its initial public offering (the PBFX Offering ). As of December 31, 2018 , PBF LLC held a 44.0% limited partner interest (consisting of 19,953,631 common units) in PBFX, with the remaining 56.0% limited partner interest held by the public unitholders. PBF LLC also owned all of the incentive distribution rights ( IDRs ) and indirectly owns a non economic general partner interest in PBFX through its wholly owned subsidiary, PBF Logistics GP LLC ( PBF GP ), the general partner of PBFX. On February 13, 2019, PBFX entered into an Equity Restructuring Agreement (the IDR Restructuring Agreement ) with PBF GP, pursuant to which the IDRs held by PBF LLC will be canceled and converted into newly issued PBFX common units (the IDR Restructuring ). Prior to the IDR Restructuring, the IDRs entitled PBF LLC to receive increasing percentages, up to a maximum of 50.0%, of the cash PBFX distributed from operating surplus in excess of $0.345 per unit per quarter. The IDR Restructuring is expected to close on February 28, 2019. Subsequent to the closing of the IDR Restructuring, the IDRs will be canceled, no future distributions will be made to PBF LLC with respect to the IDRs and the newly issued common units will be entitled to normal distributions. As a result of the payment on May 31, 2017 by PBFX of its distribution for the first quarter of 2017, the financial tests required for conversion of all of PBFX previously outstanding subordinated units into common units were satisfied. In addition, all of PBFX subordinated units, which were owned by PBF LLC, converted on a 1 for 1 basis into common units effective June 1, 2017. The conversion of the subordinated units did not impact the amount of cash distributions paid by PBFX or the total number of its outstanding units. The subordinated units were issued by PBFX in connection with the PBFX Offering. 8 The following map details the locations of our refineries and the location of PBFX assets (each as defined below) 9 Refining Our five refineries are located in Delaware City, Delaware, Paulsboro, New Jersey, Toledo, Ohio, New Orleans, Louisiana and Torrance, California. Each refinery is briefly described in the table below Refinery Region Nelson Complexity Index Throughput Capacity (in barrels per day) PADD Crude Processed (1) Source (1) Delaware City East Coast 113 190,000 1 light sweet through heavy sour water, rail Paulsboro East Coast 132 180,000 1 light sweet through heavy sour water Toledo Mid Continent 9.2 170,000 2 light sweet pipeline, truck, rail Chalmette Gulf Coast 127 189,000 3 light sweet through heavy sour water, pipeline Torrance West Coast 14.9 155,000 5 medium and heavy pipeline, water, truck ________ (1) Reflects the typical crude and feedstocks and related sources utilized under normal operating conditions and prevailing market environments. Logistics PBFX is a fee based, growth oriented, publicly traded Delaware master limited partnership ( MLP ) formed by PBF Energy to own or lease, operate, develop and acquire crude oil and refined petroleum products terminals, pipelines, storage facilities and similar logistics assets. PBFX engages in the receiving, handling, storage and transferring of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and intermediates from sources located throughout the United States and Canada for PBF Energy in support of certain of its refineries, as well as for third party customers. As of December 31, 2018 , a substantial majority of PBFX revenue is derived from long term, fee based commercial agreements with PBF Holding, which include minimum volume commitments, for receiving, handling, storing and transferring crude oil, refined products and natural gas. PBF Energy also has agreements with PBFX that establish fees for certain general and administrative services and operational and maintenance services provided by PBF Holding to PBFX. These transactions, other than those with third parties, are eliminated by us in consolidation. On April 16, 2018, PBFX wholly owned subsidiary, PBF Logistics Products Terminals LLC ( PLPT ), completed the purchase of 2 refined product terminals located in Knoxville, Tennessee, which include product tanks, pipeline connections to the Colonial Pipeline Company and Plantation Pipe Line Company pipeline systems and truck loading facilities (the Knoxville Terminals ) from Cummins Terminals, Inc. ( Cummins ). On July 16, 2018, PBFX entered into four contribution agreements with PBF LLC pursuant to which PBF LLC contributed to PBFX certain of its subsidiaries (the Development Assets Contribution Agreements ). Pursuant to the Development Assets Contribution Agreements, PBF LLC contributed to PBFX all of the issued and outstanding limited liability company interests of Toledo Rail Logistics Company LLC ( TRLC ), whose assets consist of a loading and unloading rail facility located at PBF Holding Toledo Refinery (the Toledo Rail Products Facility ); Chalmette Logistics Company LLC ( CLC ), whose assets consist of a truck loading rack facility (the Chalmette Truck Rack ) and a rail yard facility (the Chalmette Rosin Yard ), both of which are located at PBF Holding Chalmette Refinery; Paulsboro Terminaling Company LLC ( PTC ), whose assets consist of a lube oil terminal facility located at PBF Holding Paulsboro Refinery (the Paulsboro Lube Oil Terminal ); and DCR Storage and Loading Company LLC ( DSLC ), whose assets consist of an ethanol storage facility located at PBF Holding Delaware City Refinery (the Delaware Ethanol Storage Facility and collectively with the Toledo Rail 10 Products Facility, the Chalmette Truck Rack, the Chalmette Rosin Yard, and the Paulsboro Lube Oil Terminal, the Development Assets ). The acquisition of the Development Assets closed on July 31, 2018. On October 1, 2018, PBFX completed the purchase of CPI Operations LLC (the East Coast Storage Assets Acquisition ), a subsidiary of Crown Point International, LLC ( Crown Point ). The East Coast Storage Assets consist of a storage facility with related infrastructure and equipment and other idled assets located on the Delaware River near Paulsboro, New Jersey. See Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. Available Information Our website address is www.pbfenergy.com. Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and any other materials filed with (or furnished to) the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by us are available on our website (under Investors ) free of charge, soon after we file or furnish such material. In this same location, we also post our corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct and ethics, and the charters of the committees of our board of directors. These documents are available free of charge in print to any stockholder that makes a written request to the Secretary, PBF Energy Inc., 1 Sylvan Way, Second Floor, Parsippany, New Jersey 07054. 11 The diagram below depicts our organizational structure as of December 31, 2018 12 Operating Segments We operate in 2 reportable business segments Refining and Logistics. Our five oil refineries, including certain related logistics assets that are not owned by PBFX, are engaged in the refining of crude oil and other feedstocks into petroleum products, and are aggregated into the Refining segment. PBFX operates certain logistics assets such as crude oil and refined petroleum products terminals, pipelines and storage facilities. Certain of PBFX assets were previously operated and owned by various subsidiaries of PBF Holding and were acquired by PBFX in a series of transactions since its inception. PBFX is reported in the Logistics segment. A substantial majority of PBFX revenue is derived from long term, fee based commercial agreements with PBF Holding and its subsidiaries and these intersegment related revenues are eliminated in consolidation. See Note 20 Segment Information of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for detailed information on our operating results by business segment. Refining Segment We own and operate five refineries providing geographic and market diversity. We produce a variety of products at each of our refineries, including gasoline, ULSD, heating oil, jet fuel, lubricants, petrochemicals and asphalt. We sell our products throughout the Northeast, Midwest, Gulf Coast and West Coast of the United States, as well as in other regions of the United States, Canada and Mexico, and are able to ship products to other international destinations. Delaware City Refinery Overview. The Delaware City refinery is located on an approximately 5,000 acre site, with access to waterborne cargoes and an extensive distribution ne2rk of pipelines, barges and tankers, truck and rail. Delaware City is a fully integrated operation that receives crude via rail at its crude unloading facilities, or ship or barge at its docks located on the Delaware River. The crude and other feedstocks are stored in an extensive tank farm prior to processing. In addition, there is a 15 lane, 76,000 bpd capacity truck loading rack located adjacent to the refinery and a 23 mile interstate pipeline that are used to distribute clean products, which were sold to PBFX in conjunction with its acquisition of the DCR Products Pipeline and Truck Rack (as defined in Note 3 PBF Logistics LP of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) in May 2015. As a result of its configuration and process units, Delaware City has the capability of processing a slate of heavy crudes with a high concentration of high sulfur crudes and is 1 of the largest and most complex refineries on the East Coast. The Delaware City refinery is 1 of 2 heavy crude coking refineries, the other being our Paulsboro refinery, on the East Coast of the United States with coking capacity equal to approximately 25% of crude capacity. The Delaware City refinery primarily processes a variety of medium to heavy, sour crude oils, but can run light, sweet crude oils as well. The refinery has large conversion capacity with its 82,000 bpd fluid catalytic cracking unit ( FCC unit ), 47,000 bpd fluid coking unit and 18,000 bpd hydrocracking unit with vacuum distillation. 13 The following table approximates the Delaware City refinery major process unit capacities. Unit capacities are shown in barrels per stream day. Refinery Units Nameplate Capacity Crude Distillation Unit 190,000 Vacuum Distillation Unit 102,000 Fluid Catalytic Cracking Unit 82,000 Hydrotreating Units 160,000 Hydrocracking Unit 18,000 Catalytic Reforming Unit 43,000 Benzene Toluene Extraction Unit 15,000 Butane Isomerization Unit 6,000 Alkylation Unit 11,000 Polymerization Unit 16,000 Fluid Coking Unit 47,000 Feedstocks and Supply Arrangements. We source our crude oil needs for Delaware City primarily through short term and spot market agreements. Refined Product Yield and Distribution. The Delaware City refinery predominantly produces gasoline, jet fuel, ULSD and ultra low sulfur heating oil as well as certain other products. We market and sell all of our refined products independently to a variety of customers on the spot market or through term agreements. Inventory Intermediation Agreement. On June 26, 2013, we entered into an Inventory Intermediation Agreement (the Inventory Intermediation Agreement ) with J. Aron & Company, a subsidiary of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. ( J. Aron ) to support the operations of the Delaware City refinery, which commenced upon the termination of the previous product offtake agreement. Pursuant to such Inventory Intermediation Agreement, J. Aron purchases the Products (as defined in Item 1A Risk Factors ) produced and delivered into the refinery storage tanks on a daily basis. J. Aron further agrees to sell to us on a daily basis the Products delivered out of the refinery storage tanks. On certain dates subsequent to the inception of the Inventory Intermediation Agreements, we and our subsidiary, DCR, entered into amendments to the amended and restated inventory intermediation agreement (as amended, the Amended Delaware Intermediation Agreement ) with J. Aron pursuant to which certain terms of the Inventory Intermediation Agreements were amended, including, among other things, pricing and an extension of the term. The most recent of these amendments was executed on September 8, 2017 which extended the term to July 1, 2019, which term may be further extended by mutual consent of the parties to July 1, 2020. At expiration, we will have to repurchase the inventories outstanding under the Amended Delaware Intermediation Agreement at that time. Tankage Capacity. The Delaware City refinery has total storage capacity of approximately 10.0 million barrels. Of the total, approximately 36 million barrels of storage capacity are dedicated to crude oil and other feedstock storage with the remaining 6.4 million barrels allocated to finished products, intermediates and other products. Energy and Other Utilities. Under normal operating conditions, the Delaware City refinery consumes approximately 65,000 MMBTU per day of natural gas supplied via pipeline from third parties. The Delaware City refinery has a 280 MW power plant located on site that consists of 2 natural gas fueled turbines with combined capacity of approximately 140 MW and four turbo generators with combined nameplate capacity of approximately 140 MW. Collectively, this power plant produces electricity in excess of Delaware City refinery load of approximately 90 MW. Excess electricity is sold into the Pennsylvania New Jersey Maryland, or PJM, grid. Steam is primarily produced by a combination of 3 dedicated boilers, 2 heat recovery steam generators on the gas turbines, and is supplemented by secondary boilers at the FCC and Coker. Hydrogen is provided via the refinery 14 steam methane reformer and continuous catalytic reformer. During 2018, we signed an agreement with a third party for the construction and subsequent lease of a new 25 million cubic feet per day hydrogen facility (the Hydrogen Facility ) which is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2020. Upon completion, the Hydrogen Facility will provide us with additional complex crude processing capabilities. Paulsboro Refinery Overview. The Paulsboro refinery is located on approximately 950 acres on the Delaware River in Paulsboro, New Jersey, near Philadelphia and approximately 30 miles away from Delaware City. Paulsboro receives crude and feedstocks via its marine terminal on the Delaware River. Paulsboro is 1 of 2 operating refineries on the East Coast with coking capacity, the other being our Delaware City refinery. The Paulsboro refinery primarily processes a variety of medium and heavy, sour crude oils but can run light, sweet crude oils as well. The following table approximates the Paulsboro refinery major process unit capacities. Unit capacities are shown in barrels per stream day. Refinery Units Nameplate Capacity Crude Distillation Units 168,000 Vacuum Distillation Units 83,000 Fluid Catalytic Cracking Unit 55,000 Hydrotreating Units 141,000 Catalytic Reforming Unit 32,000 Alkylation Unit 11,000 Lube Oil Processing Unit 12,000 Delayed Coking Unit 27,000 Propane Deasphalting Unit 11,000 Feedstocks and Supply Arrangements . We have a contract with Saudi Aramco pursuant to which we have purchased up to approximately 100,000 bpd of crude oil from Saudi Aramco that is processed at Paulsboro. The crude purchased under this contract is priced off the ASCI. Refined Product Yield and Distribution. The Paulsboro refinery predominantly produces gasoline, diesel fuels and jet fuel and also manufactures Group I base oils or lubricants and asphalt. We market and sell all of our refined products independently to a variety of customers on the spot market or through term agreements under which we sell approximately 35% of our Paulsboro refinery gasoline production. Inventory Intermediation Agreement. On June 26, 2013, we entered into an Inventory Intermediation Agreement with J. Aron to support the operations of the Paulsboro refinery, which commenced upon the termination of the previous product offtake agreement. Pursuant to such Inventory Intermediation Agreement, J. Aron purchases the Products produced and delivered into the refinery storage tanks on a daily basis. J. Aron further agrees to sell to us on a daily basis the Products delivered out of the refinery storage tanks. On certain dates subsequent to the inception of the Inventory Intermediation Agreements, we and our subsidiary, PRC, entered into amendments to the amended and restated inventory intermediation agreement (as amended, the Amended Paulsboro Intermediation Agreement ) with J. Aron pursuant to which certain terms of the Inventory Intermediation Agreements were amended, including, among other things, pricing and an extension of the term. The most recent of these amendments was executed on September 8, 2017 which extended the term to December 31, 2019, which may be further extended by mutual consent of the parties to December 31, 2020. At expiration, we will be required to repurchase the inventories outstanding under the Amended Paulsboro Intermediation Agreement at that time. Tankage Capacity. The Paulsboro refinery has total storage capacity of approximately 7.5 million barrels. Of the total, approximately 21 million barrels are dedicated to crude oil storage with the remaining 5.4 million barrels allocated to finished products, intermediates and other products. 15 Energy and Other Utilities. Under normal operating conditions, the Paulsboro refinery consumes approximately 40,000 MMBTU per day of natural gas supplied via pipeline from third parties. The Paulsboro refinery is mostly self sufficient for electrical power through a mix of gas and steam turbine generators. The Paulsboro refinery generation typically supplies about 57 MW of the total 63 MW total refinery load. There are circumstances where available generation is greater than the total refinery load, but the Paulsboro refinery does not typically export power to the utility grid. If necessary, supplemental electrical power is available on a guaranteed basis from the local utility. The Paulsboro refinery is connected to the grid via 3 separate 69KV aerial feeders and has the ability to run entirely on imported power. Steam is produced in 3 boilers and a heat recovery steam generator fed by the exhaust from the gas turbine. In addition, there are a number of waste heat boilers and furnace stack economizers throughout the refinery that supplement the steam generation capacity. Backup capability is provided by package boilers. The Paulsboro refinery current hydrogen needs are met by the hydrogen supply from the reformer. In addition, the refinery employs a standal1 steam methane reformer. This ancillary hydrogen plant is utilized as a back up source of hydrogen for the refinery process units. Toledo Refinery Overview . The Toledo refinery primarily processes a slate of light, sweet crudes from Canada, the Mid Continent, the Bakken region and the U.S. Gulf Coast. The Toledo refinery is located on a 282 acre site near Toledo, Ohio, approximately 60 miles from Detroit. Crude is delivered to the Toledo refinery through 3 primary pipelines (1) Enbridge from the north, (2) Capline from the south and (3) Mid Valley from the south. Crude is also delivered to a nearby terminal by rail and from local sources by truck to a truck unloading facility within the refinery. The following table approximates the Toledo refinery major process unit capacities. Unit capacities are shown in barrels per stream day. Refinery Units Nameplate Capacity Crude Distillation Unit 170,000 Fluid Catalytic Cracking Unit 79,000 Hydrotreating Units 95,000 Hydrocracking Unit 45,000 Catalytic Reforming Units 45,000 Alkylation Unit 10,000 Polymerization Unit 7,000 UDEX Unit 16,300 Feedstocks and Supply Arrangements. We source our crude oil needs for Toledo primarily through short term and spot market agreements. Refined Product Yield and Distribution. Toledo produces finished products including gasoline and ULSD, in addition to a variety of high value petrochemicals including benzene, toluene, xylene, n1ne and tetramer. Toledo is connected, via pipelines, to an extensive distribution ne2rk throughout Ohio, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. The finished products are transported on pipelines owned by Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. and Buckeye Partners. In addition, we have proprietary connections to a variety of smaller pipelines and spurs that help us optimize our clean products distribution. A significant portion of Toledo gasoline and ULSD are distributed through the approximately 36 terminals in this ne2rk. 16 We have an agreement with Sunoco whereby Sunoco purchases gasoline and distillate products representing approximately 1 third of the Toledo refinery gasoline and distillates production. The agreement had an initial 3 year term, subject to certain early termination rights. In March 2017, the agreement was renewed and extended for a 2 year term. We are currently in the process of negotiating a renewal of this agreement. We sell the bulk of the petrochemicals produced at the Toledo refinery through short term contracts or on the spot market and the majority of the petrochemical distribution is d1 via rail. Tankage Capacity. The Toledo refinery has total storage capacity of approximately 4.5 million barrels. The Toledo refinery receives its crude through pipeline connections and a truck rack. Of the total, approximately 13 million barrels are dedicated to crude oil storage with the remaining 32 million barrels allocated to intermediates and products. A portion of storage capacity dedicated to crude oil and finished products was sold to PBFX in conjunction with its acquisition of the Toledo Storage Facility (as defined in Note 3 PBF Logistics LP of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) in December 2014. Energy and Other Utilities. Under normal operating conditions, the Toledo refinery consumes approximately 20,000 MMBTU per day of natural gas supplied via pipeline from third parties. The Toledo refinery purchases its electricity from the PJM grid and has a long term contract to purchase hydrogen and steam from a local third party supplier. In addition to the third party steam supplier, Toledo consumes a portion of the steam that is generated by its various process units. Chalmette Refinery Overview . The Chalmette refinery is located on a 400 acre site near New Orleans, Louisiana. It is a dual train coking refinery and is capable of processing both light and heavy crude oil through its 189,000 bpd crude units and downstream units. Chalmette Refining owns 100% of the MOEM Pipeline, providing access to the Empire Terminal, as well as the CAM Connection Pipeline, providing access to the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port facility through a third party pipeline. Chalmette Refining also owns 80% of each of the Collins Pipeline Company and T&M Terminal Company, both located in Collins, Mississippi, which provide a clean products outlet for the refinery to the Plantation and Colonial Pipelines. In addition, there is also a marine terminal capable of importing waterborne feedstocks and loading or unloading finished products; a clean products truck rack which provides access to local markets; and a crude and product storage facility. The following table approximates the Chalmette refinery major process unit capacities. Unit capacities are shown in barrels per stream day. Refinery Units Nameplate Capacity Crude Distillation Units 189,000 Fluid Catalytic Cracking Unit 72,000 Hydrotreating Units 186,000 Delayed Coker 29,000 Catalytic Reforming Unit 40,000 Alkylation Unit 15,000 Feedstocks and Supply Arrangements. We source our crude oil and feedstock needs for Chalmette through connections to the CAM and MOEM pipelines as well as our marine terminal. On November 1, 2015, we entered into a market based crude supply agreement with Petr leos de Venezuela S.A. ( PDVSA ) that has a ten year term with a renewal option for an additional five years, subject to certain early termination rights. The pricing for the crude supply is market based and is agreed upon on a quarterly basis by both parties. We have not sourced crude oil under this agreement since the third quarter of 2017 as PDVSA has suspended deliveries due to the parties inability to agree to mutually acceptable payment terms. 17 Refined Product Yield and Distribution. The Chalmette refinery predominantly produces gasoline and diesel fuels and also manufactures high value petrochemicals including benzene and xylene. Products produced at the Chalmette refinery are transferred to customers through pipelines, the marine terminal and truck rack. The majority of our clean products are delivered to customers via pipelines. Our ownership of the Collins Pipeline and T&M Terminal provides Chalmette with strategic access to Southeast and East Coast markets through third party logistics. Tankage Capacity. Chalmette has a total tankage capacity of approximately 8.1 million barrels. Of this total, approximately 26 million barrels are allocated to crude oil storage with the remaining 5.5 million barrels allocated to intermediates and products. Energy and Other Utilities. Under normal operating conditions, the Chalmette refinery consumes approximately 30,000 MMBTU per day of natural gas supplied via pipeline from third parties. The Chalmette refinery purchases its electricity from a local utility and has a long term contract to purchase hydrogen and steam from third party suppliers. Coker Project The Chalmette refinery is currently in the process of restarting its idled 12,000 barrel per day coker unit to increase the refinery long term feedstock flexibility and be positi1d to benefit from potential dislocations in the price for heavy and high sulfur feedstocks. The unit is expected to be in service by the end of 2019 and is expected to increase the refinery total coking capacity to approximately 42,000 barrels per day. Torrance Refinery Acquisition. On July 1, 2016, we acquired from ExxonMobil and its subsidiary, Mobil Pacific Pipe Line Company, the Torrance refinery and related logistics assets (collectively, the Torrance Acquisition ). Overview . The Torrance refinery is located on 750 acres in Torrance, California. It is a high conversion crude, delayed coking refinery. It is capable of processing both heavy and medium crude oil through its crude unit and downstream units. In addition to refining assets, the Torrance Acquisition included a number of high quality logistics assets including a sophisticated ne2rk of crude and products pipelines, product distribution terminals and refinery crude and product storage facilities. The most significant logistics asset is a crude gathering and transportation system which delivers San Joaquin Valley crude oil directly from the field to the refinery. Additionally, included in the transaction are several pipelines which provide access to sources of crude oil including the Ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles, as well as clean product outlets with a direct pipeline that supplies jet fuel to the Los Angeles airport. The following table approximates the Torrance refinery major process unit capacities. Unit capacities are shown in barrels per stream day. Refinery Units Nameplate Capacity Crude Distillation Unit 155,000 Vacuum Distillation Unit 102,000 Fluid Catalytic Cracking Unit 88,000 Hydrotreating Units 151,000 Hydrocracking Unit 23,000 Alkylation Unit 27,000 Delayed Coker 53,000 Feedstocks and Supply Arrangements. The Torrance refinery primarily processes a variety of medium and heavy crude oils. In connection with the closing of the Torrance Acquisition, we entered into a crude supply agreement with ExxonMobil for approximately 60,000 bpd of crude oil that can be processed at our Torrance refinery. This crude supply agreement has a five year term with an automatic renewal feature unless either party gives thirty six months prior written notice. Additionally, we obtain crude and feedstocks from other sources through connections to third party pipelines as well as ship docks and truck racks. 18 Refined Product Yield and Distribution. The Torrance refinery predominantly produces gasoline, jet fuel and diesel fuels. Products produced at the Torrance refinery are transferred to customers through pipelines, the marine terminal and truck rack. The majority of clean products are delivered to customers via pipelines. Concurrently with the acquisition of the refinery on July 1, 2016, we entered into an offtake agreement with ExxonMobil pursuant to which ExxonMobil purchases up to 50% of our gasoline production. This offtake agreement had an initial term of 3 years and was scheduled to automatically renew for another 3 year term unless either party provided six months written notice of its intent to terminate the agreement. This contract has been terminated and will not be renewed upon expiration on July 1, 2019. On a prospective basis, we will market and sell all of our refined products independently to a variety of customers either on the spot market or through term agreements. Tankage Capacity. Torrance has a total tankage capacity of approximately 8.6 million barrels. Of this total, approximately 21 million barrels are allocated to crude oil storage with the remaining 6.5 million barrels allocated to intermediates and products. Energy and Other Utilities. Under normal operating conditions, the Torrance refinery consumes approximately 45,000 MMBTU per day of natural gas supplied via pipeline from third parties. The Torrance refinery generates some power internally using a combination of steam and gas turbines and purchases any additional needed power from the local utility. The Torrance refinery has a long term contract to purchase hydrogen from a third party supplier. Logistics Segment We formed PBFX, a publicly traded MLP, to own or lease, operate, develop and acquire crude oil and refined petroleum products terminals, pipelines, storage facilities and similar logistics assets. PBFX operations are aggregated into the Logistics segment. PBFX engages in the receiving, handling, storage and transferring of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and intermediates from sources located throughout the United States and Canada for PBF Energy in support of its refineries, as well as for third party customers. A substantial majority of PBFX revenues is derived from long term, fee based commercial agreements with PBF Holding, which include minimum volume commitments for receiving, handling, storing and transferring crude oil, refined products and natural gas. PBFX third party revenue is primarily derived from its third party acquisitions. PBF Energy also has agreements with PBFX that establish fees for certain general and administrative services and operational and maintenance services provided by PBF Holding to PBFX. These transactions, other than those with third parties, are eliminated by PBF Energy and PBF LLC in consolidation. As of December 31, 2018 , PBFX assets consist of the following Asset Capacity Products Handled Location Supported Transportation and Terminaling DCR Rail Terminal (a)(b) 130,000 bpd unloading capacity Crude Delaware City and Paulsboro refineries DCR West Rack (a)(b) 40,000 bpd unloading capacity Crude Delaware City and Paulsboro refineries Toledo Truck Terminal (a) 22,500 bpd unloading capacity Crude Toledo refinery Toledo Storage Facility propane loading facility (a) 11,000 bpd throughput capacity Propane Toledo refinery DCR Products Pipeline (a) 125,000 bpd pipeline capacity Refined products Delaware City refinery DCR Truck Rack (a) 76,000 bpd throughput capacity Gasoline, distillates and LPGs Delaware City refinery 19 East Coast Terminals various throughput capacity and approximately 4.2 million barrel aggregate shell capacity Refined products Delaware City and Paulsboro refineries Torrance Valley Pipeline (a) 110,000 bpd pipeline capacity Crude Torrance refinery Paulsboro Natural Gas Pipeline (a) 60,000 dth d pipeline capacity Natural gas Paulsboro refinery Toledo Products Terminal various throughput capacity and 110,000 barrel aggregate shell capacity Refined products Toledo refinery Knoxville Terminals various throughput capacity and 520,000 barrel aggregate shell capacity Gasoline, distillates and LPGs Chalmette refinery Toledo Rail Products Facility (a)(c) 16,000 bpd loading capacity Crude, LPGs, gasoline and distillates Toledo refinery Chalmette Truck Rack (a)(c) 20,000 bpd loading capacity Gasoline and distillates Chalmette refinery Chalmette Rosin Yard (a)(c) 17,000 bpd unloading capacity LPGs Chalmette refinery Paulsboro Lube Oil Terminal (a)(c) various throughput capacity and 229,000 barrel aggregate shell capacity Lubes Paulsboro refinery Delaware Ethanol Storage Facility (a)(c) various throughput capacity and 100,000 barrel aggregate shell capacity Ethanol Delaware refinery Storage Toledo Storage Facility (a) approximately 39 million barrel aggregate shell capacity (d) Crude, refined products and intermediates Toledo refinery Chalmette Storage Tank 625,000 barrel shell capacity Crude Chalmette refinery East Coast Storage Assets approximately 4.0 million barrel aggregate shell capacity (e) Crude, feedstock and asphalt Delaware City and Paulsboro refineries ___________________ (a) These assets represent the assets that PBFX acquired from PBF LLC. (b) These assets are collectively referred to as the DCR Rail Facility . (c) These assets are collectively referred to as the Development Assets . (d) Of the approximately 39 million barrel aggregate shell capacity, approximately 13 million barrels are dedicated to crude and approximately 26 million barrels are allocated to refined products and intermediates. (e) Of the approximately 4.0 million barrel aggregate shell capacity, approximately 30 million barrels are dedicated to crude and feedstock and approximately 10 million barrels are allocated to asphalt. 20 Transactions with PBFX Since the inception of PBFX in 2014, PBF LLC and PBFX have entered into a series of drop down transactions. Such transactions occurring in the 3 years ended December 31, 2018 are discussed below. On August 31, 2016, PBFX entered into a contribution agreement (the TVPC Contribution Agreement ) between PBFX and PBF LLC. Pursuant to the TVPC Contribution Agreement, PBFX acquired from PBF LLC 50% of the issued and outstanding limited liability company interests of TVPC, whose assets consist of the San Joaquin Valley Pipeline system (which was acquired as a part of the Torrance Acquisition). The total consideration paid to PBF LLC was $175.0 million, which was funded by PBFX with $20.0 million of cash on hand, $76.2 million in proceeds from the sale of marketable securities, and $78.8 million in net proceeds from the PBFX equity offering in August 2016. On February 15, 2017, PBFX entered into the PNGPC Contribution Agreement between PBFX and PBF LLC. Pursuant to the PNGPC Contribution Agreement, PBF LLC contributed to PBFX wholly owned subsidiary, PBFX Operating Company LLC ( PBFX Op Co ), all of the issued and outstanding limited liability company interests of PNGPC. PNGPC owns and operates an existing interstate natural gas pipeline that originates in Delaware County, Pennsylvania, at an interconnection with Texas Eastern pipeline that runs under the Delaware River and terminates at the delivery point to PBF Holding Paulsboro refinery, and is subject to regulation by the FERC. In connection with the PNGPC Contribution Agreement, PBFX constructed a new 24 pipeline to replace the existing pipeline, which commenced services in August 2017. In consideration for the PNGPC limited liability company interests, PBFX delivered to PBF LLC (i) an $116 million intercompany promissory note in favor of Paulsboro Refining Company LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of PBF Holding, (ii) an expansion rights and right of first refusal agreement in favor of PBF LLC with respect to the Paulsboro Natural Gas Pipeline and (iii) an assignment and assumption agreement with respect to certain outstanding litigation involving PNGPC and the existing pipeline. Effective February 2017, PBF Holding and PBFX Op Co entered into a ten year storage services agreement under which PBFX, through PBFX Op Co, began providing storage services to PBF Holding commencing on November 1, 2017 upon the completion of the construction of a new crude tank with a shell capacity of 625,000 barrels at PBF Holding Chalmette Refinery. PBFX Op Co and Chalmette Refining have entered into a twenty year lease for the premises upon which the tank is located and a project management agreement pursuant to which Chalmette Refining managed the construction of the tank. On July 16, 2018, PBFX entered into the Development Assets Contribution Agreements with PBF LLC. Pursuant to the Development Asset Contribution Agreements, PBF LLC contributed all of the issued and outstanding limited liability company interests of the Development Assets to PBFX effective July 31, 2018. In consideration for the Development Assets limited liability company interests, PBFX delivered to PBF LLC total consideration of $316 million consisting of 1,494,134 common units of PBFX. In connection with the foregoing transactions, PBF Holding entered into commercial agreements with PBFX entities for the provision of services which require minimum monthly throughput volumes. Subsequent to the transactions described above, as of December 31, 2018 , PBF LLC holds a 44.0% limited partner interest in PBFX consisting of 19,953,631 common units. PBFX IDR Restructuring Agreement On February 13, 2019, PBFX entered into the IDR Restructuring Agreement with PBF GP, pursuant to which the IDRs held by PBF LLC will be canceled and converted into 10,000,000 newly issued common units. The IDR Restructuring is expected to close on February 28, 2019. Subsequent to the closing of the IDR Restructuring, no distributions will be made to PBF LLC with respect to the IDRs and the newly issued common units will be entitled to normal distributions. 21 Principal Products Our refineries make various grades of gasoline, distillates (including diesel fuel, jet fuel and ULSD) and other products from crude oil, other feedstocks, and blending comp1nts. We sell these products through our commercial accounts, and sales with major oil companies. For the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , gasoline and distillates accounted for 84.7% , 84.1% and 88.0% of our revenues, respectively. Customers We sell a variety of refined products to a diverse customer base. The majority of our refined products are primarily sold through short term contracts or on the spot market. However, we do have product offtake arrangements for a portion of our clean products. For the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenues, respectively. As of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 , no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total trade accounts receivable. Seasonality Demand for gasoline and diesel is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction work. Decreased demand during the winter months can lower gasoline and diesel prices. As a result, our operating results for the first and fourth calendar quarters may be lower than those for the second and third calendar quarters of each year. Refining margins remain volatile and our results of operations may not reflect these historical seasonal trends. Additionally, the degree of seasonality may differ by the geographic areas in which we operate. Most of the effects of seasonality on PBFX operating results are mitigated through fee based commercial agreements with us that include minimum volume commitments. Competition The refining business is very competitive. We compete directly with various other refining companies on the East, Gulf and West Coasts and in the Mid Continent, with integrated oil companies, with foreign refiners that import products into the United States and with producers and marketers in other industries supplying alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of industrial, commercial and individual consumers. Some of our competitors have expanded the capacity of their refineries and internationally new refineries are coming on line which could also affect our competitive position. Profitability in the refining industry depends largely on refined product margins, which can fluctuate significantly, as well as crude oil prices and differentials between the prices of different grades of crude oil, operating efficiency and reliability, product mix and costs of product distribution and transportation. Certain of our competitors that have larger and more complex refineries may be able to realize lower per barrel costs or higher margins per barrel of throughput. Several of our principal competitors are integrated national or international oil companies that are larger and have substantially greater resources. Because of their integrated operations and larger capitalization, these companies may be more flexible in responding to volatile industry or market conditions, such as shortages of feedstocks or intense price fluctuations. Refining margins are frequently impacted by sharp changes in crude oil costs, which may not be immediately reflected in product prices. The refining industry is highly competitive with respect to feedstock supply. Unlike certain of our competitors that have access to proprietary controlled sources of crude oil production available for use at their own refineries, we obtain all of our crude oil and substantially all other feedstocks from unaffiliated sources. The availability and cost of crude oil and feedstock are affected by global supply and demand. We have no crude oil reserves and are not engaged in the exploration or production of crude oil. We believe, however, that we will be able to obtain adequate crude oil and other feedstocks at generally competitive prices for the foreseeable future. 22 Our complex refinery system and sourcing optionality may position us favorably to benefit from changes in certain market conditions and governmental or industry regulations, such as the pending requirement from the International Maritime Organization ( IMO ) related to the reduction in sulfur content of marine fuels to a maximum of 0.5% effective January 1, 2020. Due to our relative refinery complexity and ample coking capacity, we anticipate being able to favorably capture the benefit from potential product margin uplift associated with an increase in demand for low sulfur fuel or a widening of the discount on high sulfur feedstocks as a result of the new IMO regulations. Corporate Offices We currently lease approximately 58,000 square feet for our principal corporate offices in Parsippany, New Jersey. The lease for our principal corporate offices expires in 2022 Functions performed in the Parsippany office include overall corporate management, refinery and HSE management, planning and strategy, corporate finance, commercial operations, logistics, contract administration, marketing, investor relations, governmental affairs, accounting, tax, treasury, information technology, legal and human resources support functions. We lease approximately 4,000 square feet for our regional corporate office in Long Beach, California. The lease for our Long Beach office expires in 2021 Functions performed in the Long Beach office include overall regional corporate management, planning and strategy, commercial operations, logistics, contract administration, marketing and governmental affairs. We lease approximately 5,000 square feet for our regional corporate office in The Woodlands, Texas. The lease for The Woodlands office expires in 2022 Functions performed in The Woodlands include pipeline control center operations and logistics operations, engineering and regulatory support functions. Employees As of December 31, 2018 , we had approximately 3,266 employees, of which 1,625 are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Our hourly employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements through the United Steel Workers ( USW ), the Independent Oil Workers ( IOW ) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers ( IBEW ). We consider our relations with the represented employees to be satisfactory. Location Number of employees Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Collective bargaining agreements Expiration date Headquarters 379 N A N A Delaware City refinery 559 377 USW January 2022 Paulsboro refinery 470 291 IOW March 2022 Toledo refinery 528 331 USW February 2022 Chalmette refinery 562 264 USW January 2022 Torrance refinery 578 288 USW IBEW January 2022 January 2022 Torrance logistics 108 45 USW January 2022 April 2021 PBFX 82 29 USW February 2022 April 2021 Total employees 3,266 1,625 Tentative agreement has been reached and upon ratification and execution will extend the collective bargaining agreement related to Torrance refinery and Torrance logistics employees covered under the USW agreement through January 2022 23 Executive Officers of the Registrant The following is a list of our executive officers as of February 21, 2019 Name Age (as of December 31, 2018) Position Thomas J. Nimbley 67 Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors Matthew C. Lucey 45 President Erik Young 41 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Paul Davis 56 President, Western Region Thomas L. O Connor 46 Senior Vice President, Commercial Herman Seedorf 67 Senior Vice President, Refining Trecia Canty 49 Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Corporate Secretary Thomas J. Nimbley has served as our Chief Executive Officer since June 2010 and on our Board of Directors since October 2014. He has served as the Chairman of our Board since July 2016. He was our Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer from March 2010 through June 2010. In his capacity as our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Nimbley also serves as a director and the Chief Executive Officer of certain of our subsidiaries and our affiliates, including Chairman of the Board of PBF GP. Prior to joining us, Mr. Nimbley served as a Principal for Nimbley Consultants LLC from June 2005 to March 2010, where he provided consulting services and assisted on the acquisition of 2 refineries. He previously served as Senior Vice President and head of Refining for Phillips Petroleum Company ( Phillips ) and subsequently Senior Vice President and head of Refining for ConocoPhillips ( ConocoPhillips ) domestic refining system (13 locations) following the merger of Phillips and Conoco Inc. Before joining Phillips at the time of its acquisition of Tosco Corporation ( Tosco ) in September 2001, Mr. Nimbley served in various positions with Tosco and its subsidiaries starting in April 1993 Matthew C. Lucey has served as our President since January 2015 and was our Executive Vice President from April 2014 to December 2014. Mr. Lucey served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer from April 2010 to March 2014. Mr. Lucey joined us as our Vice President, Finance in April 2008. Mr. Lucey is also a director of certain of our subsidiaries, including PBF GP. Prior thereto, Mr. Lucey served as a Managing Director of M.E. Zukerman & Co., a New York based private equity firm specializing in several sectors of the broader energy industry, from 2001 to 2008. Before joining M.E. Zukerman & Co., Mr. Lucey spent six years in the banking industry. Erik Young has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2014 after joining us in December 2010 as Director, Strategic Planning where he was responsible for both corporate development and capital markets initiatives. Mr. Young is also a director of certain of our subsidiaries, including PBF GP. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Young spent eleven years in corporate finance, strategic planning and mergers and acquisitions roles across a variety of industries. He began his career in investment banking before joining J.F. Lehman & Company, a private equity investment firm, in 2001 Paul Davis has served as our President, PBF Energy Western Region LLC since September 2017. Mr. Davis joined us in April of 2012 and held various executive roles in our commercial operations, including Co Head of Commercial, prior to serving as Senior Vice President, Western Region Commercial Operations from September 2015 to September 2017. Previously, Mr. Davis was responsible for managing the U.S. clean products commercial operations for Hess Energy Trading Company from 2006 to 2012 Prior to that, Mr. Davis was responsible for Premcor U.S. Midwest clean products disposition group. Mr. Davis has over 29 years of experience in commercial operations in crude oil and refined products, including 16 years with the ExxonMobil Corporation in various operational and commercial positions, including sourcing refinery feedstocks and crude oil and the disposition of refined petroleum products, as well as optimization roles within refineries. 24 Thomas L. O Connor has served as our Senior Vice President, Commercial since September 2015. Mr. O Connor joined us as Senior Vice President in September 2014 with responsibility for business development and growing the business of PBFX, and from January to September 2015, served as our Co Head of commercial activities. Prior to joining us, Mr. O Connor worked at Morgan Stanley since 2000 in various positions, most recently as a Managing Director and Global Head of Crude Oil Trading and Global Co Head of Oil Flow Trading. Prior to joining Morgan Stanley, Mr. O Connor worked for Tosco from 1995 to 2000 in the Atlantic Basin Fuel Oil and Feedstocks group. Herman Seedorf serves as our Senior Vice President of Refining. Mr. Seedorf originally joined us in February of 2011 as the Delaware City Refinery Plant Manager and became Senior Vice President, Eastern Region Refining, in September of 2013 Prior to 2011, Mr. Seedorf served as the refinery manager of the Wood River Refinery in Roxana, Illinois, and also as an officer of the joint venture between ConocoPhillips and Cenovus Energy Inc. Mr. Seedorf oversight responsibilities included the development and execution of the multi billion dollar upgrade project which enabled the expanded processing of Canadian crude oils. He also served as the refinery manager of the Bayway Refinery in Linden, New Jersey for four years during the time period that it was an asset of Tosco. Mr. Seedorf began his career in the petroleum industry with Exxon Corporation ( Exxon ) in 1980. Trecia Canty has served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since September 2015. In her role, Ms. Canty is responsible for the legal department and outside counsel, which provide a broad range of support for the Company business activities, including corporate governance, compliance, litigations and mergers and acquisitions. Previously, Ms. Canty was named Vice President, Senior Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary in October 2014 and led our commercial and finance legal operations since joining us in November 2012 Ms. Canty is also a director of certain of our subsidiaries. Prior to joining us, Ms. Canty served as Associate General Counsel, Corporate and Assistant Secretary of Southwestern Energy Company, where her responsibilities included finance and mergers and acquisitions, securities and corporate compliance and corporate governance. She also provided legal support to the midstream marketing and logistics businesses. Prior to joining Southwestern Energy Company in 2004, she was an associate with Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton. Environmental, Health and Safety Matters Our refineries, pipelines and related operations are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, those relating to the discharge of materials into the environment or that otherwise relate to the protection of the environment, waste management and the characteristics and the compositions of fuels. Compliance with existing and anticipated laws and regulations can increase the overall cost of operating the refineries, including remediation, operating costs and capital costs to construct, maintain and upgrade equipment and facilities. Permits are also required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. Compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of operations and capital requirements. We believe that our current operations are in substantial compliance with existing environmental laws, regulations and permits . In connection with the Paulsboro refinery acquisition, we assumed certain environmental remediation obligations. The Paulsboro environmental liability of $110 million recorded as of December 31, 2018 ( $10.3 million as of December 31, 2017 ) represents the present value of expected future costs discounted at a rate of 8.0%. The current portion of the environmental liability is recorded in Accrued expenses and the non current portion is recorded in Other long term liabilities. As of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 , this liability is self guaranteed by us. In connection with the acquisition of the Delaware City assets, Valero Energy Corporation ( Valero ) remains responsible for certain pre acquisition environmental obligations up to $20.0 million and the predecessor to Valero in ownership of the refinery retains other historical obligations. 25 In connection with the acquisition of the Delaware City assets and the Paulsboro refinery, the Company and Valero purchased ten year, $75.0 million environmental insurance policies to insure against unknown environmental liabilities at each site. In connection with the Toledo refinery acquisition, Sunoco, Inc. (R&M) remains responsible for environmental remediation for conditions that existed on the closing date for twenty years from March 1, 2011, subject to certain limitations. In connection with the acquisition of the Chalmette refinery, we obtained $39 million in financial assurance (in the form of a surety bond) to cover estimated potential site remediation costs associated with an agreed to Administrative Order of Consent with the United States Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ). The estimated cost assumes remedial activities will continue for a minimum of thirty years. Further, in connection with the acquisition of the Chalmette refinery, we purchased a ten year, $100.0 million environmental insurance policy to insure against unknown environmental liabilities at the refinery. At the time we acquired the Chalmette refinery it was subject to a Consolidated Compliance Order and Notice of Potential Penalty (the Order ) issued by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality ( LDEQ ) covering deviations from 2009 and 2010. Chalmette Refining and LDEQ subsequently entered into a dispute resolution agreement to negotiate the resolution of deviations on or before December 31, 2014. On May 18, 2018 the Order was settled by LDEQ and the Chalmette refinery for an administrative penalty of $741,000 , of which $100,000 has been paid in cash and the remainder has been spent on beneficial environmental projects. The Delaware City refinery appealed a Notice of Penalty Assessment and Secretary Order issued in March 2017, including a $150,000 fine, alleging violation of a 2013 Secretary Order authorizing crude oil shipment by barge. The Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control (the DNREC ) determined that the Delaware City refinery had violated the order by failing to make timely and full disclosure to DNREC about the nature and extent of those shipments, and had misrepresented the number of shipments that went to other facilities. The Penalty Assessment and Secretary Order conclude that the 2013 Secretary Order was violated by the refinery by shipping crude oil from the Delaware City terminal to 3 locations other than the Paulsboro refinery, on 15 days in 2014, making a total of 17 separate barge shipments containing approximately 35.7 million gallons of crude oil in total. On April 28, 2017, the Delaware City refinery appealed the Notice of Penalty Assessment and Secretary Order. On March 5, 2018, Notice of Penalty Assessment was settled by DNREC, the Delaware Attorney General and Delaware City refinery for $100,000 . The Delaware City refinery made no admissions with respect to the alleged violations and agreed to request a Coastal Z1 Act status decision prior to making crude oil shipments to destinations other than Paulsboro. The Coastal Z1 Act status decision request was submitted to DNREC and the outstanding appeal was withdrawn as required under the settlement agreement. On December 28, 2016, DNREC issued a Coastal Z1 Act permit (the Ethanol Permit ) to DCR allowing the utilization of existing tanks and existing marine loading equipment at their existing facilities to enable denatured ethanol to be loaded from storage tanks to marine vessels and shipped to offsite facilities. On January 13, 2017, the issuance of the Ethanol Permit was appealed by 2 environmental groups. On February 27, 2017, the Coastal Z1 Industrial Board (the Coastal Z1 Board ) held a public hearing and dismissed the appeal, determining that the appellants did not have standing. The appellants filed an appeal of the Coastal Z1 Board decision with the Delaware Superior Court (the Superior Court ) on March 30, 2017. On January 19, 2018, the Superior Court rendered an Opinion regarding the decision of the Coastal Z1 Board to dismiss the appeal of the Ethanol Permit for the ethanol project. The Judge determined that the record created by the Coastal Z1 Board was insufficient for the Superior Court to make a decision, and therefore remanded the case back to the Coastal Z1 Board to address the deficiency in the record. Specifically, the Superior Court directed the Coastal Z1 Board to address any evidence concerning whether the appellants claimed injuries would be affected by the increased quantity of ethanol shipments. On remand, the Coastal Z1 Board met on January 28, 2019 and reversed its previous decision on standing, ruling that the appellants have standing to appeal the issuance of the Ethanol Permit. DCR is currently evaluating its appeal options. 26 At the time we acquired the Toledo refinery, EPA had initiated an investigation into the compliance of the refinery with EPA standards governing flaring pursuant to Section 114 of the Clean Air Act. On February 1, 2013, EPA issued an Amended Notice of Violation, and on September 20, 2013, EPA issued a Notice of Violation and Finding of Violation to Toledo refinery, alleging certain violations of the Clean Air Act at its Plant 4 and Plant 9 flares since the acquisition of the refinery on March 1, 2011 Toledo refinery and EPA subsequently entered into tolling agreements pending settlement discussions. Although the resolution has not been finalized, the civil administrative penalty is anticipated to be approximately $645,000 including supplemental environmental projects. To the extent the administrative penalty exceeds such amount, it is not expected to be material to us. In connection with the acquisition of the Torrance refinery and related logistics assets, we assumed certain pre existing environmental liabilities totaling $130.8 million as of December 31, 2018 ( $136.5 million as of December 31, 2017 ), related to certain environmental remediation obligations to address existing soil and groundwater contamination and monitoring activities and other clean up activities, which reflects the current estimated cost of the remediation obligations. The current portion of the environmental liability is recorded in Accrued expenses and the non current portion is recorded in Other long term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. In addition, in connection with the acquisition of the Torrance refinery and related logistics assets, we purchased a ten year, $100.0 million environmental insurance policy to insure against unknown environmental liabilities. Furthermore, in connection with the acquisition, we assumed responsibility for certain specified environmental matters that occurred prior to our ownership of the refinery and the logistics assets, including specified incidents and or notices of violations ( NOVs ) issued by regulatory agencies in various years before our ownership, including the Southern California Air Quality Management District ( SCAQMD ) and the Division of Occupational Safety and Health of the State of California ( Cal OSHA ). In connection with the acquisition of the Torrance refinery and related logistics assets, we agreed to take responsibility for NOV No. P63405 that ExxonMobil had received from the SCAQMD for Title V deviations that are alleged to have occurred in 2015. On August 14, 2018, we received a letter from SCAQMD offering to settle this NOV for $515,250 . We are currently in communication with SCAQMD to resolve this NOV. Subsequent to the acquisition, further NOVs were issued by the SCAQMD, Cal OSHA, the City of Torrance, the City of Torrance Fire Department and the Los Angeles County Sanitation District related to alleged operational violations, emission discharges and or flaring incidents at the refinery and the logistics assets both before and after our acquisition. EPA in November 2016 conducted a Risk Management Plan ( RMP ) inspection following the acquisition related to Torrance operations and issued preliminary findings in March 2017 concerning RMP potential operational violations. We are currently in communication with EPA to resolve the RMP preliminary findings. EPA and the California Department of Toxic Substances Control ( DTSC ) in December 2016 conducted a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ) inspection following the acquisition related to Torrance operations and also issued in March 2017 preliminary findings concerning RCRA potential operational violations. In April 2017, EPA referred the RCRA preliminary findings to DTSC for final resolution. On March 1, 2018, we received a notice of intent to sue from Environmental Integrity Project, on behalf of Environment California, under RCRA with respect to the alleged violations from EPA and DTSC December 2016 inspection. On March 2, 2018, DTSC issued an order to correct alleged RCRA violations relating to the accumulation of oil bearing materials in roll off bins during 2016 and 2017. On June 14, 2018, the Torrance refinery and DTSC reached settlement regarding the oil bearing materials in the form of a stipulation and order, wherein the Torrance refinery agreed that it would recycle or properly dispose of the oil bearing materials by the end of 2018 and pay an administrative penalty of $150,000 . The Torrance refinery has complied with these requirements. Following this settlement, in June 2018, DTSC referred the remaining alleged RCRA violations from EPA and DTSC December 2016 inspection to the California Attorney General for final resolution. The Torrance refinery and the California Attorney General are in discussions to resolve these remaining alleged RCRA violations. Other than the $150,000 DTSC administrative penalty, no other settlement or penalty demands have been received to date with respect to any of the other NOVs, preliminary findings, or order that are in excess of $100,000 . As the ultimate outcomes are uncertain, we cannot currently estimate the final amount or timing of their resolution, but any such amount is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, individually or in the aggregate. 27 In connection with the PBFX Plains Asset Purchase (as defined in Note 4 Acquisitions of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), PBFX is responsible for the environmental remediation costs for conditions that existed on the closing date up to a maximum of $250,000 per year for ten years, with Plains All American Pipeline, L.P. remaining responsible for any and all additional costs above such amounts during such period. The recorded environmental liability associated with the PBFX Plains Asset Purchase as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $16 million and $19 million , respectively. In connection with the Knoxville Terminal Purchase (as defined in Note 4 Acquisitions of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), PBFX and Cummins purchased a ten year, $30.0 million environmental insurance policy against unknown environmental liabilities. PBFX did not assume, and is currently not aware of, any material pre existing environmental obligations. Additionally, the seller remains responsible for pre acquisition environmental obligations up to a specified amount for a specified period of time. In connection with the East Coast Storage Assets Acquisition (as defined in Note 4 Acquisitions of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), PBFX purchased a ten year, $30.0 million environmental insurance policy against unknown environmental liabilities. Additionally, the seller remains responsible for pre acquisition environmental obligations up to a specified amount for a specified period of time. The recorded environmental liability associated with the East Coast Storage Assets Acquisition as of December 31, 2018 was $885,000 . Applicable Federal and State Regulatory Requirements Our operations and many of the products we manufacture are subject to certain specific requirements of the Clean Air Act (the CAA ) and related state and local regulations. The CAA contains provisions that require capital expenditures for the installation of certain air pollution control devices at our refineries. Subsequent rule making authorized by the CAA or similar laws or new agency interpretations of existing rules, may necessitate additional expenditures in future years. In 2010, New York State adopted a Low Sulfur Heating Oil mandate that, beginning July 1, 2012, requires all heating oil sold in New York State to contain no more than 15 parts per million ( PPM ) sulfur. Since July 1, 2012, other states in the Northeast market began requiring heating oil sold in their state to contain no more than 15 PPM sulfur. Currently, all of the Northeastern states and Washington DC have adopted sulfur controls on heating oil. As of July 1, 2018, most of the Northeastern states require heating oil with 15 PPM or less sulfur (except for Pennsylvania and Maryland where less than 500 PPM sulfur is required). All of the heating oil we currently produce meet these specifications. The mandate and other requirements do not currently have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. EPA issued the final Tier 3 Gasoline standards on March 3, 2014 under the CAA. This final rule establishes more stringent vehicle emission standards and further reduces the sulfur content of gasoline starting in January 2017. The new standard is set at 10 PPM sulfur in gasoline on an annual average basis starting January 1, 2017, with a credit trading program to provide compliance flexibility. EPA responded to industry comments on the proposed rule and maintained the per gallon sulfur cap on gasoline at the existing 80 PPM cap. The refineries are complying with these new requirements as planned, either directly or using flexibility provided by sulfur credits generated or purchased in advance as an economic optimization. The standards set by the new rule are not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are required to comply with the Renewable Fuel Standard ( RFS ) implemented by EPA, which sets annual quotas for the quantity of renewable fuels (such as ethanol) that must be blended into motor fuels consumed in the United States. In July 2018, EPA issued proposed amendments to the RFS program regulations that would establish annual percentage standards for cellulosic biofuel, biomass based diesel, advanced biofuel, and renewable fuels that would apply to all gasoline and diesel produced in the U.S. or imported in the year 2019. In addition, the separate proposal includes a proposed biomass based diesel applicable volume for 2020. It is likely that RIN production will continue to be lower than needed forcing obligated parties, such as us, to purchase cellulosic waiver credits or purchase excess RINs from suppliers on the open market. 28 In addition, on November 26, 2018 EPA finalized revisions to an existing air regulation concerning Maximum Achievable Control Technologies ( MACT ) for Petroleum Refineries. The regulation requires additional continuous monitoring systems for eligible process safety valves relieving to atmosphere, minimum flare gas heat (Btu) content, and delayed coke drum vent controls to be installed by January 30, 2019. In addition, a program for ambient fence line monitoring for benzene was implemented prior to the deadline of January 30, 2018. We are in the process of implementing the requirements of this regulation. The regulation does not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. EPA published a Final Rule to the Clean Water Act ( CWA ) Section 316(b) in August 2014 regarding cooling water intake structures, which includes requirements for petroleum refineries. The purpose of this rule is to prevent fish from being trapped against cooling water intake screens (impingement) and to prevent fish from being drawn through cooling water systems (entrainment). Facilities will be required to implement Best Technology Available ( BTA ) as soon as possible, but state agencies have the discretion to establish implementation time lines. We continue to evaluate the impact of this regulation, and at this time do not anticipate it having a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. As a result of the Torrance Acquisition, we are subject to greenhouse gas emission control regulations in the state of California pursuant to Assembly Bill 32 ( AB32 ). AB32 imposes a statewide cap on greenhouse gas emissions, including emissions from transportation fuels, with the aim of returning the state to 1990 emission levels by 2020. AB32 is implemented through 2 market mechanisms including the Low Carbon Fuel Standard ( LCFS ) and Cap and Trade, which was extended for an additional ten years to 2030 in July 2017. We are responsible for the AB32 obligations related to the Torrance refinery beginning on July 1, 2016 and must purchase emission credits to comply with these obligations. Additionally, in September 2016, the state of California enacted Senate Bill 32 ( SB32 ) which further reduces greenhouse gas emissions targets to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2030. However, subsequent to the acquisition, we are recovering the majority of these costs from our customers, and as such do not expect this obligation to materially impact our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. To the degree there are unfavorable changes to AB32 or SB32 regulations or we are unable to recover such compliance costs from customers, these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We are subject to obligations to purchase RINs. On February 15, 2017, we received a notification that EPA records indicated that PBF Holding used potentially invalid RINs that were in fact verified under EPA RIN Quality Assurance Program ( QAP ) by an independent auditor as QAP A RINs. Under the regulations, use of potentially invalid QAP A RINs provided the user with an affirmative defense from civil penalties provided certain conditions are met. We have asserted the affirmative defense and if accepted by EPA will not be required to replace these RINs and will not be subject to civil penalties under the program. It is reasonably possible that EPA will not accept our defense and may assess penalties in these matters but any such amount is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. As of January 1, 2011, we are required to comply with EPA Control of Hazardous Air Pollutants From Mobile Sources, or MSAT2, regulations on gasoline that impose reductions in the benzene content of our produced gasoline. We purchase benzene credits to meet these requirements. Our planned capital projects will reduce the amount of benzene credits that we need to purchase. In addition, the renewable fuel standards mandate the blending of prescribed percentages of renewable fuels (e.g., ethanol and biofuels) into our produced gasoline and diesel. These new requirements, other requirements of the CAA and other presently existing or future environmental regulations may cause us to make substantial capital expenditures as well as the purchase of credits at significant cost, to enable our refineries to produce products that meet applicable requirements. The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 ( CERCLA ), also known as Superfund, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the current or former owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances. 29 Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for investigation and the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. As discussed more fully above, certain of our sites are subject to these laws and we may be held liable for investigation and remediation costs or claims for natural resource damages. It is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment. Analogous state laws impose similar responsibilities and liabilities on responsible parties. In our current normal operations, we have generated waste, some of which falls within the statutory definition of a hazardous substance and some of which may have been disposed of at sites that may require cleanup under Superfund. As is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. These matters include soil and water contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed of. Current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our refineries and at our other facilities. To the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. Our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. We maintain safety training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. We cannot predict what additional health, safety and environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing requirements or discovery of new information such as unknown contamination could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess . 30 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry You should carefully read the risks and uncertainties described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only 1s facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of PBF Energy Class A common stock could fall. The price volatility of crude oil, other feedstocks, blendstocks, refined products and fuel and utility services may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, cash flows and liquidity. Our revenues, profitability, cash flows and liquidity from operations depend primarily on the margin above operating expenses (including the cost of refinery feedstocks, such as crude oil, intermediate partially refined petroleum products, and natural gas liquids that are processed and blended into refined products) at which we are able to sell refined products. Refining is primarily a margin based business and, to increase profitability, it is important to maximize the yields of high value finished products while minimizing the costs of feedstock and operating expenses. When the margin between refined product prices and crude oil and other feedstock costs contracts, our earnings, profitability and cash flows are negatively affected. Refining margins historically have been volatile, and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of a variety of factors, including fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, refined products and fuel and utility services. An increase or decrease in the price of crude oil will likely result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products; however, there may be a time lag in the realization, or no such realization, of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. The effect of changes in crude oil prices on our refining margins therefore depends in part on how quickly and how fully refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. In addition, the nature of our business requires us to maintain substantial crude oil, feedstock and refined product inventories. Because crude oil, feedstock and refined products are commodities, we have no control over the changing market value of these inventories. Our crude oil, feedstock and refined product inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market value under the last in first out ( LIFO ) inventory valuation methodology. If the market value of our crude oil, feedstock and refined product inventory declines to an amount less than our LIFO cost, we would record a write down of inventory and a non cash impact to cost of products and other. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2018 , we recorded an adjustment to value our inventories to the lower of cost or market which decreased income from operations and net income by $3513 million and $259.9 million, respectively, reflecting the net change in the lower of cost or market ( LCM ) inventory reserve from $300.5 million at December 31, 2017 to $6517 million at December 31, 2018 . Prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, blendstocks, and refined products depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the supply of and demand for crude oil, other feedstocks, gasoline, diesel, ethanol, asphalt and other refined products. Such supply and demand are affected by a variety of economic, market, environmental and political conditions. Our direct operating expense structure also impacts our profitability. Our major direct operating expenses include employee and contract labor, maintenance and energy. Our predominant variable direct operating cost is energy, which is comprised primarily of fuel and other utility services. The volatility in costs of fuel, principally natural gas, and other utility services, principally electricity, used by our refineries and other operations affect our operating costs. Fuel and utility prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by factors outside our control, such as supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. Natural gas prices have historically been volatile and, typically, electricity prices fluctuate with natural gas prices. Future increases in fuel and utility prices may have a negative effect on our refining margins, profitability and cash flows. 31 Our profitability is affected by crude oil differentials and related factors, which fluctuate substantially. A significant portion of our profitability is derived from the ability to purchase and process crude oil feedstocks that historically have been less expensive than benchmark crude oils, such as the heavy, sour crude oils processed at our Delaware City, Paulsboro, Chalmette and Torrance refineries. For our Toledo refinery, aside from recent crude differential volatility, purchased crude prices have historically been slightly above the WTI benchmark, however, such crude slate typically results in favorable refinery production yield. For all locations, these crude oil differentials can vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on overall economic conditions and trends and conditions within the markets for crude oil and refined products. Any change in these crude oil differentials may have an impact on our earnings. Our rail investment and strategy to acquire cost advantaged Mid Continent and Canadian crude, which are priced based on WTI, could be adversely affected when the Dated Brent WTI or related differentials narrow. A narrowing of the WTI Dated Brent differential may result in our Toledo refinery losing a portion of its crude oil price advantage over certain of our competitors, which negatively impacts our profitability. In addition, efforts in Canada to control the imbalance between its production and capacity to export crude may continue to result in price volatility and the narrowing of the WTI WCS differential, which is a proxy for the difference between light U.S. and heavy Canadian crude oil, and may reduce our refining margins and adversely affect our profitability and earnings. Divergent views have been expressed as to the expected magnitude of changes to these crude differentials in future periods. Any continued or further narrowing of these differentials could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. Additionally, governmental and regulatory actions, including continued resolutions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to restrict crude oil production levels and executive actions by the current U.S. presidential administration to advance certain energy infrastructure projects such as the Keyst1 XL pipeline, may continue to impact crude oil prices and crude oil differentials. Any increase in crude oil prices or unfavorable movements in crude oil differentials due to such actions or changing regulatory environment may negatively impact our ability to acquire crude oil at economical prices and could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. A significant interruption or casualty loss at any of our refineries and related assets could reduce our production, particularly if not fully covered by our insurance. Failure by 1 or more insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event could materially and adversely affect our future cash flows, operating results and financial condition. Our business currently consists of owning and operating five refineries and related assets. As a result, our operations could be subject to significant interruption if any of our refineries were to experience a major accident, be damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster, or otherwise be forced to shut down or curtail production due to unforeseen events, such as acts of God, nature, orders of governmental authorities, supply chain disruptions impacting our crude rail facilities or other logistical assets, power outages, acts of terrorism, fires, toxic emissions and maritime hazards. Any such shutdown or disruption would reduce the production from that refinery. There is also risk of mechanical failure and equipment shutdowns both in general and following unforeseen events. Further, in such situations, undamaged refinery processing units may be dependent on or interact with damaged sections of our refineries and, accordingly, are also subject to being shut down. In the event any of our refineries is forced to shut down for a significant period of time, it would have a material adverse effect on our earnings, our other results of operations and our financial condition as a whole. As protection against these hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, such potential losses and liabilities. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may increase substantially. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, coverage for hurricane damage can be limited, and coverage for terrorism risks can include broad exclusions. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. 32 Our insurance program includes a number of insurance carriers. Significant disruptions in financial markets could lead to a deterioration in the financial condition of many financial institutions, including insurance companies and, therefore, we may not be able to obtain the full amount of our insurance coverage for insured events. Our refineries are subject to interruptions of supply and distribution as a result of our reliance on pipelines and railroads for transportation of crude oil and refined products. Our Toledo, Chalmette and Torrance refineries receive a significant portion of their crude oil through pipelines. These pipelines include the Enbridge system, Capline and Mid Valley pipelines for supplying crude to our Toledo refinery, the MOEM and CAM pipelines for supplying crude to our Chalmette refinery and the San Joaquin Pipeline, San Ardo and Coastal Pipeline systems for supplying crude to our Torrance refinery. Additionally, our Toledo, Chalmette and Torrance refineries deliver a significant portion of the refined products through pipelines. These pipelines include pipelines such as the Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. and Buckeye Partners L.P. pipelines at Toledo, the Collins Pipeline at our Chalmette refinery and Jet Pipeline to the Los Angeles International Airport, the Product Pipeline to Vernon and the Product Pipeline to A2od at our Torrance refinery. We could experience an interruption of supply or delivery, or an increased cost of receiving crude oil and delivering refined products to market, if the ability of these pipelines to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of accidents, weather interruptions, governmental regulation, terrorism, other third party action or casualty or other events. The Delaware City rail unloading facilities and our recently acquired East Coast Storage Assets, allow our East Coast refineries to source WTI based crudes from Western Canada and the Mid Continent, which may provide significant cost advantages versus traditional Brent based international crudes in certain market environments. Any disruptions or restrictions to our supply of crude by rail due to problems with third party logistics infrastructure or operations or as a result of increased regulations, could increase our crude costs and negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, due to the common carrier regulatory obligation applicable to interstate oil pipelines, capacity allocation among shippers can become contentious in the event demand is in excess of capacity. Therefore, nominations by new shippers or increased nominations by existing shippers may reduce the capacity available to us. Any prolonged interruption in the operation or curtailment of available capacity of the pipelines that we rely upon for transportation of crude oil and refined products could have a further material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Regulation of emissions of greenhouse gases could force us to incur increased capital and operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Both houses of Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases ( GHGs ), such as carbon dioxide and methane, including proposals to (i) establish a cap and trade system, (ii) create a federal renewable energy or clean energy standard requiring electric utilities to provide a certain percentage of power from such sources, and (iii) create enhanced incentives for use of renewable energy and increased efficiency in energy supply and use. In addition, EPA is taking steps to regulate GHGs under the existing federal Clean Air Act (the CAA ). EPA has already adopted regulations limiting emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles, addressing the permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources, and requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources, including refineries. These and similar regulations could require us to incur costs to monitor and report GHG emissions or reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. In addition, various states, individually as well as in some cases on a regional basis, have taken steps to control GHG emissions, including adoption of GHG reporting requirements, cap and trade systems and renewable portfolio standards (such as AB32 regulations in California). Efforts have also been undertaken to delay, limit or prohibit EPA and possibly state action to regulate GHG emissions, and it is not possible at this time to predict the ultimate form, timing or extent of federal or state regulation. In addition, it is currently uncertain how the current presidential administration will address GHG emissions. In the event we do incur increased costs as a result of increased efforts to control GHG emissions, we may not be able to pass on any of these costs to our customers. Such requirements also could adversely affect demand for the refined petroleum products that we produce. Any increased costs or reduced demand could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operation. 33 Requirements to reduce emissions could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities as well as implement and manage new emission controls and programs put in place. For example, AB32 in California requires the state to reduce its GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. Additionally, in September 2016, the state of California enacted Senate Bill 32 which further reduces greenhouse gas emissions targets to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2030. 2 regulations implemented to achieve these goals are Cap and Trade and the Low Carbon Fuel Standard ( LCFS ). In 2012, the California Air Resource Board ( CARB ) implemented Cap and Trade. This program currently places a cap on GHGs and we are required to acquire a sufficient number of credits to cover emissions from our refineries and our in state sales of gasoline and diesel. In 2009, CARB adopted the LCFS, which requires a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of gasoline and diesel by 2020. Compliance is achieved through blending lower carbon intensity biofuels into gasoline and diesel or by purchasing credits. Compliance with each of these programs is facilitated through a market based credit system. If sufficient credits are unavailable for purchase or we are unable to pass through costs to our customers, we have to pay a higher price for credits or if we are otherwise unable to meet our compliance obligations, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our hedging activities may limit our potential gains, exacerbate potential losses and involve other risks. We may enter into commodity derivatives contracts to hedge our crude price risk or crack spread risk with respect to a portion of our expected gasoline and distillate production on a rolling basis or to hedge our exposure to the price of natural gas, which is a significant comp1nt of our refinery operating expenses. Consistent with that policy we may hedge some percentage of our future crude and natural gas supply. We may enter into hedging arrangements with the intent to secure a minimum fixed cash flow stream on the volume of products hedged during the hedge term and to protect against volatility in commodity prices. Our hedging arrangements may fail to fully achieve these objectives for a variety of reasons, including our failure to have adequate hedging arrangements, if any, in effect at any particular time and the failure of our hedging arrangements to produce the anticipated results. We may not be able to procure adequate hedging arrangements due to a variety of factors. Moreover, such transactions may limit our ability to benefit from favorable changes in crude oil, refined product and natural gas prices. In addition, our hedging activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the volumes of our actual use of crude oil or natural gas or production of the applicable refined products is less than the volumes subject to the hedging arrangement; accidents, interruptions in feedstock transportation, inclement weather or other events cause unscheduled shutdowns or otherwise adversely affect our refineries, or those of our suppliers or customers; changes in commodity prices have a material impact on collateral and margin requirements under our hedging arrangements, resulting in us being subject to margin calls; the counterparties to our derivative contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts the commodity or crack spread subject to the hedging arrangement. As a result, the effectiveness of our hedging strategy could have a material impact on our financial results. See Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. In addition, these hedging activities involve basis risk. Basis risk in a hedging arrangement occurs when the price of the commodity we hedge is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged commodity is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. For example, a NYMEX index used for hedging certain volumes of our crude oil or refined products may have more or less variability than the actual cost or price we realize for such crude oil or refined products. We may not hedge all the basis risk inherent in our hedging arrangements and derivative contracts. 34 We may have capital needs for which our internally generated cash flows and other sources of liquidity may not be adequate. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flows or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to support our short term and long term capital requirements, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations or our future debt obligations, comply with certain deadlines related to environmental regulations and standards, or pursue our business strategies, including acquisitions, in which case our operations may not perform as we currently expect. We have substantial short term capital needs and may have substantial long term capital needs. Our short term working capital needs are primarily related to financing certain of our crude oil and refined products inventory not covered by our various supply and Inventory Intermediation Agreements. Pursuant to the Inventory Intermediation Agreements, J. Aron purchases and holds title to certain of the intermediate and finished products (the Products ) produced by the Delaware City and Paulsboro refineries (the Refineries ) and delivered into the tanks at the refineries (or at other locations outside of the refineries as agreed upon by both parties). Furthermore, J. Aron agrees to sell the intermediate and finished products back to us as they are discharged out of the refineries tanks (or other locations outside of the refineries as agreed upon by both parties). We market and sell the finished products independently to third parties. If we cannot adequately handle our crude oil and feedstock requirements or if we are required to obtain our crude oil supply at our other refineries without the benefit of the existing supply arrangements or the applicable counterparty defaults in its obligations, our crude oil pricing costs may increase as the number of days between when we pay for the crude oil and when the crude oil is delivered to us increases. Termination of our Inventory Intermediation Agreements with J. Aron would require us to finance our refined products inventory covered by the agreements at terms that may not be as favorable. Additionally, we are obligated to repurchase from J. Aron all volumes of products located at the refineries storage tanks (or at other locations outside of the refineries as agreed upon by both parties) upon termination of these agreements, which may have a material adverse impact on our working capital and financial condition. Further, if we are not able to market and sell our finished products to credit worthy customers, we may be subject to delays in the collection of our accounts receivable and exposure to additional credit risk. Such increased exposure could negatively impact our liquidity due to our increased working capital needs as a result of the increase in the amount of crude oil inventory and accounts receivable we would have to carry on our consolidated balance sheet. Our long term needs for cash include those to support ongoing capital expenditures for equipment maintenance and upgrades during turnarounds at our refineries and to complete our routine and normally scheduled maintenance, regulatory and security expenditures. In addition, from time to time, we are required to spend significant amounts for repairs when 1 or more processing units experiences temporary shutdowns. We continue to utilize significant capital to upgrade equipment, improve facilities, and reduce operational, safety and environmental risks. In connection with the Paulsboro and Torrance acquisitions, we assumed certain significant environmental obligations, and may similarly do so in future acquisitions. We will likely incur substantial compliance costs in connection with new or changing environmental, health and safety regulations. See Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition. Our liquidity condition will affect our ability to satisfy any and all of these needs or obligations. We may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. In the past, global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and may again be, subject to disruption and volatile due to a variety of factors, including uncertainty in the financial services sector, low consumer confidence, falling commodity prices, geopolitical issues and generally weak economic conditions. In addition, the fixed income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility that have negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. As a result, the cost of raising m1y in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from those markets diminished significantly. In particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally, which may be subject to unforeseen disruptions, the cost of obtaining m1y from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce or, in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be 35 certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due. Moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Competition from companies who produce their own supply of feedstocks, have extensive retail outlets, make alternative fuels or have greater financial and other resources than we do could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our refining operations compete with domestic refiners and marketers in regions of the United States in which we operate, as well as with domestic refiners in other regions and foreign refiners that import products into the United States. In addition, we compete with other refiners, producers and marketers in other industries that supply their own renewable fuels or alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. Certain of our competitors have larger and more complex refineries, and may be able to realize lower per barrel costs or higher margins per barrel of throughput. Several of our principal competitors are integrated national or international oil companies that are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do and access to proprietary sources of controlled crude oil production. Unlike these competitors, we obtain substantially all of our feedstocks from unaffiliated sources. We are not engaged in the petroleum exploration and production business and therefore do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. We do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. Because of their integrated operations and larger capitalization, these companies may be more flexible in responding to volatile industry or market conditions, such as shortages of crude oil supply and other feedstocks or intense price fluctuations. Newer or upgraded refineries will often be more efficient than our refineries, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. We have taken significant measures to maintain our refineries including the installation of new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve our operations. However, these actions involve significant uncertainties, since upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels, the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design specifications and modifications may be needed to correct equipment that does not perform as expected. Any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have an adverse effect on future results of operations and financial condition. Over time, our refineries or certain refinery units may become obsolete, or be unable to compete, because of the construction of new, more efficient facilities by our competitors. A portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. At Delaware City, Toledo, Chalmette and Torrance, most hourly employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement through the USW. The agreements with the USW covering the Delaware City refinery and Chalmette refinery are scheduled to expire in January 2022, the agreement with the USW covering Toledo is scheduled to expire in February 2022, the agreement with the USW covering certain Torrance Logistics employees is scheduled to expire in April 2021 and the agreements with the USW covering certain PBFX employees are scheduled to expire in April 2021 and February 2022 The agreements with the USW covering the represented employees at the Torrance refinery and Torrance logistics facilities expired in January 2019, with a tentative agreement in place that would extend the respective collective bargaining agreement expiration dates through January 2022 subject to an affirmative ratification vote and execution. Similarly, at the Paulsboro refinery, hourly employees are represented by the IOW under a contract scheduled to expire in March 2022 Future negotiations as our collective agreements expire may result in labor unrest for which a strike or work stoppage is possible. Strikes and or work stoppages could negatively affect our operational and financial results and may increase operating expenses at the refineries. 36 Any political instability, military strikes, sustained military campaigns, terrorist activity, or changes in foreign policy could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any political instability, military strikes, sustained military campaigns, terrorist activity, or changes in foreign policy in areas or regions of the world where we acquire crude oil and other raw materials or sell our refined petroleum products may affect our business in unpredictable ways, including forcing us to increase security measures and causing disruptions of supplies and distribution markets. We may also be subject to United States trade and economic sanctions laws, which change frequently as a result of foreign policy developments, and which may necessitate changes to our crude oil acquisition activities. Further, like other industrial companies, our facilities may be the target of terrorist activities. Any act of war or terrorism that resulted in damage to any of our refineries or third party facilities upon which we are dependent for our business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Economic turmoil in the global financial system or an economic slowdown or recession in the future may have an adverse impact on the refining industry. Our business and profitability are affected by the overall level of demand for our products, which in turn is affected by factors such as overall levels of economic activity and business and consumer confidence and spending. In the past, declines in global economic activity and consumer and business confidence and spending significantly reduced the level of demand for our products. In addition, macroeconomic trends, such as economic recession, inflation, unemployment and interest rates can affect the level of demand for our products. Reduced demand for our products may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, downturns in the economy impact the demand for refined fuels and, in turn, result in excess refining capacity. Refining margins are impacted by changes in domestic and global refining capacity, as increases in refining capacity can adversely impact refining margins, earnings and cash flows. Our business is indirectly exposed to risks faced by our suppliers, customers and other business partners. The impact on these constituencies of the risks posed by economic turmoil in the global financial system could include interruptions or delays in the performance by counterparties to our contracts, reductions and delays in customer purchases, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products and the inability of customers to pay for our products. Any of these events may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We must make substantial capital expenditures on our operating facilities to maintain their reliability and efficiency. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and or in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of new facilities (or improvements and repairs to our existing facilities and equipment, including turnarounds) could adversely affect our ability to achieve targeted internal rates of return and operating results. Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors in the marketplace, many of which are beyond our control, including denial or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals and or permits; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of modular comp1nts and or construction materials; severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market related increases in a project debt or equity financing costs; and or non performance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or sub contractors involved with a project. 37 Our refineries contain many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. Equipment, even if properly maintained, may require significant capital expenditures and expenses to keep it operating at optimum efficiency. 1 or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnarounds for such units. Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating. Our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals, which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand. Any 1 or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our business. If we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Acquisitions that we may undertake in the future involve a number of risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits. We may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. We may selectively consider strategic acquisitions in the future within the refining and mid stream sector based on performance through the cycle, advantageous access to crude oil supplies, attractive refined products market fundamentals and access to distribution and logistics infrastructure. Our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify acceptable acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth and many other factors beyond our control. Risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to the diversion of management time and attention from our existing business, liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities and greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental, safety or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results, and the incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets. We may also enter into transition services agreements in the future with sellers of any additional refineries we acquire. Such services may not be performed timely and effectively, and any significant disruption in such transition services or unanticipated costs related to such services could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, it is likely that, when we acquire refineries, we will not have access to the type of historical financial information that we will require regarding the prior operation of the refineries. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to evaluate the probable impact of significant acquisitions on our financial performance until we have operated the acquired refineries for a substantial period of time. Our business may suffer if any of our senior executives or other key employees discontinues employment with us. Furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in our labor force may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity. Our future success depends to a large extent on the services of our senior executives and other key employees. Our business depends on our continuing ability to recruit, train and retain highly qualified employees in all areas of our operations, including engineering, accounting, business operations, finance and other key back office and mid office personnel. Furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced employees with proficiency in multiple tasks. The competition for these employees is intense, and the loss of these executives or employees could harm our business. If any of these executives or other key personnel resigns or becomes unable to continue in his or her present role and is not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. Our commodity derivative activities could result in period to period earnings volatility. We do not currently apply hedge accounting to any of our commodity derivative contracts and, as a result, unrealized gains and losses will be charged to our earnings based on the increase or decrease in the market value of such unsettled positions. These gains and losses may be reflected in our income statement in periods that differ from when the settlement of the underlying hedged Item are reflected in our income statement. Such derivative 38 gains or losses in earnings may produce significant period to period earnings volatility that is not necessarily reflective of our underlying operational performance. Derivatives legislation, including compliance with the Dodd Frank Act, could have an adverse effect on our business, including our ability to use derivatives contracts to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The United States Congress in 2010 passed the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd Frank Act ) which, among other things, established federal oversight and regulation of the over the counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. In connection with the Dodd Frank Act, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC, has established rules to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts, and for swaps that are their economic equivalent, in the major energy markets. The legislation and related regulations require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade execution requirements if we are in scope and do not otherwise satisfy certain specific exceptions. The legislation and related regulations could significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance as well as derivatives contracts (including through requirements to post collateral), materially alter the terms of derivatives contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter and reduce our ability to m1tize or restructure our existing derivatives contracts. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations or the costs of compliance becomes prohibitive, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations. We may incur significant liability under, or costs and capital expenditures to comply with, environmental and health and safety regulations, which are complex and change frequently. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the use and or handling of petroleum and other regulated materials, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and remediation of discharges of petroleum and petroleum products, characteristics and composition of gasoline and distillates and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment and the health and safety of the surrounding community. For example, the SCAQMD is currently considering further regulations on, or potentially banning the use of, modified hydrofluoric acid, also known as MHF, in Southern California. We utilize MHF as an alkylation catalyst in the manufacturing of gasoline at our Torrance refinery. If MHF usage is limited or restricted by the SCAQMD, our current Torrance refinery operations would be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our operations are also subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. We cannot predict what additional environmental, health and safety legislation or regulations may be adopted in the future, or how existing or future laws or regulations may be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. Many of these laws and regulations have become increasingly stringent over time, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. Certain environmental laws impose strict, and in certain circumstances, joint and several, liability for costs of investigation and cleanup of spills, discharges or releases on owners and operators of, as well as persons who arrange for treatment or disposal of regulated materials at, contaminated sites. Under these laws, we may incur liability or be required to pay penalties for past contamination, and third parties may assert claims against us for damages allegedly arising out of any past or future contamination. The potential penalties and clean up costs for past or future spills, discharges or releases, the failure of prior owners of our facilities to complete their clean up obligations, the liability to third parties for damage to their property, or the need to address newly discovered information or conditions that may require a response could be significant, and the payment of these amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 39 Environmental clean up and remediation costs of our sites and environmental litigation could decrease our net cash flow, reduce our results of operations and impair our financial condition. We are subject to liability for the investigation and clean up of environmental contamination at each of the properties that we own or operate and at off site locations where we arrange for the treatment or disposal of regulated materials. We may become involved in litigation or other proceedings related to the foregoing. If we were to be held responsible for damages in any such litigation or proceedings, such costs may not be covered by insurance and may be material. Historical soil and groundwater contamination has been identified at our refineries. Currently, remediation projects for such contamination are underway in accordance with regulatory requirements at our refineries. In connection with the acquisitions of certain of our refineries and logistics assets, the prior owners have retained certain liabilities or indemnified us for certain liabilities, including those relating to pre acquisition soil and groundwater conditions, and in some instances we have assumed certain liabilities and environmental obligations, including certain existing and potential remediation obligations. If the prior owners fail to satisfy their obligations for any reason, or if significant liabilities arise in the areas in which we assumed liability, we may become responsible for remediation expenses and other environmental liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. As a result, in addition to making capital expenditures or incurring other costs to comply with environmental laws, we also may be liable for significant environmental litigation or for investigation and remediation costs and other liabilities arising from the ownership or operation of these assets by prior owners, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. See Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contractual Obligations and Commitments and Item 1 Business Environmental, Health and Safety Matters. We may also face liability arising from current or future claims alleging personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other regulated materials, such as asbestos, benzene, silica dust and petroleum hydrocarbons, at or from our facilities. We may also face liability for personal injury, property damage, natural resource damage or clean up costs for the alleged migration of contamination from our properties. A significant increase in the number or success of these claims could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our operations could be disrupted if our critical information systems are hacked or fail, causing increased expenses and loss of sales. Our business is highly dependent on financial, accounting and other data processing systems and other communications and information systems, including our enterprise resource planning tools. We process a large number of transactions on a daily basis and rely upon the proper functioning of computer systems. If a key system was hacked or otherwise interfered with by an unauthorized access, or was to fail or experience unscheduled downtime for any reason, even if only for a short period, our operations and financial results could be affected adversely. Our systems could be damaged or interrupted by a security breach, cyber attack, human error, fraud, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure or similar event. We have a formal disaster recovery plan in place, but this plan may not prevent delays or other complications that could arise from an information systems failure. As the frequency of attempted cyber attacks has increased in recent years, we have taken several actions to enhance our strategy to address and monitor cyber related risks. We have instituted a cybersecurity team that is dedicated and responsible for the design and execution of our cyber risk management strategy. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be effective to prevent cyber attacks or other interruptions of, or damage to, our key systems, business or operations, or that our business interruption insurance will compensate us adequately for losses that may occur, which could materially, adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 40 Product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Product liability is a significant commercial risk. Substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries and property damage caused by the use of or exposure to various products. Failure of our products to meet required specifications or claims that a product is inherently defective could result in product liability claims from our shippers and customers, and also arise from contaminated or off specification product in commingled pipelines and storage tanks and or defective fuels. Product liability claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Climate change could have a material adverse impact on our operations and adversely affect our facilities. Some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. We believe the issue of climate change will likely continue to receive scientific and political attention, with the potential for further laws and regulations that could materially adversely affect our ongoing operations. In addition, as many of our facilities are located near coastal areas, rising sea levels may disrupt our ability to operate those facilities or transport crude oil and refined petroleum products. Extended periods of such disruption could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. We could also incur substantial costs to protect or repair these facilities. Renewable fuels mandates may reduce demand for the refined fuels we produce, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The market prices for RINs have been volatile and may harm our profitability. Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, EPA has issued Renewable Fuel Standards, or RFS, implementing mandates to blend renewable fuels into the petroleum fuels produced and sold in the United States. Under RFS, the volume of renewable fuels that obligated refineries must blend into their finished petroleum fuels increases annually over time until 2022 In addition, certain states have passed legislation that requires minimum biodiesel blending in finished distillates. On October 13, 2010, EPA raised the maximum amount of ethanol allowed under federal law from 10% to 15% for cars and light trucks manufactured since 2007. The maximum amount allowed under federal law currently remains at 10% ethanol for all other vehicles. Existing laws and regulations could change, and the minimum volumes of renewable fuels that must be blended with refined petroleum fuels may increase. Because we do not produce renewable fuels, increasing the volume of renewable fuels that must be blended into our products displaces an increasing volume of our refinery product pool, potentially resulting in lower earnings and profitability. In addition, in order to meet certain of these and future EPA requirements, we may be required to purchase RINs, which may have fluctuating costs. We incurred approximately $1439 million in RINs costs during the year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $2937 million and $347.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The fluctuations in our RINs costs are due primarily to volatility in prices for ethanol linked RINs and increases in our production of on road transportation fuels since 2012 Our RINs purchase obligation is dependent on our actual shipment of on road transportation fuels domestically and the amount of blending achieved which can cause variability in our profitability. Our pipelines are subject to federal and or state regulations, which could reduce profitability and the amount of cash we generate. Our transportation activities are subject to regulation by multiple governmental agencies. The regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and affects profitability. Additional proposals and proceedings that affect the oil industry are regularly considered by Congress, the states, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the United States Department of Transportation, and the courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective or what impact such proposals may have. Projected operating costs related to our pipelines reflect the recurring costs resulting from compliance with these regulations, and these 41 costs may increase due to future acquisitions, changes in regulation, changes in use, or discovery of existing but unknown compliance issues. We are subject to strict laws and regulations regarding employee and process safety, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and profitability. We are subject to the requirements of the Occupational Safety & Health Administration, or OSHA, and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, OSHA requires that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that we provide this information to employees, state and local governmental authorities, and local residents. Failure to comply with OSHA requirements, including general industry standards, process safety standards and control of occupational exposure to regulated substances, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and the cash flows of the business if we are subjected to significant fines or compliance costs. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance. We are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal, state, local and foreign taxes such as income, excise, sales use, payroll, franchise, property, gross receipts, withholding and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed that could result in increased expenditures for tax liabilities in the future. These liabilities are subject to periodic audits by the respective taxing authorities, which could increase our tax liabilities. Subsequent changes to our tax liabilities as a result of these audits may also subject us to interest and penalties. There can be no certainty that our federal, state, local or foreign taxes could be passed on to our customers. Furthermore, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ( TCJA ) that was enacted on December 22, 2017 made significant permanent and temporary amendments to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, including a reduction in corporate income taxes, elimination of the corporate minimum tax, the immediate expensing of certain capital investments, allowing for an indefinite carryforward of tax net operating losses incurred in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 and fundamentally changing the taxation of multinational entities. Additionally, the TCJA potentially limits the amount of interest expense currently deductible, provides for a transition tax for previously unrepatriated foreign earnings, provides for current taxation of certain foreign income, a minimum tax on low taxed foreign earnings, and new measures to deter base erosion. Certain of the amendments included in the TCJA and the regulations promulgated thereunder may adversely affect our business, result of operations and financial condition. Changes in accounting standards issued by the FASB could have a material effect on our balance sheet, revenue and result of operations, and could require a significant expenditure of time, attention and resources, especially by senior management. Our accounting and financial reporting policies conform to GAAP, which are periodically revised and or expanded. The application of accounting principles is also subject to varying interpretations over time. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations that are issued from time to time by various parties, including accounting standard setters and those who interpret the standards, such as the FASB and the SEC and our independent registered public accounting firm. Such new financial accounting standards may result in significant changes that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. Refer to Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of new accounting standards, including the implementation status and potential impact to our consolidated financial statements. 42 Changes in our credit profile could adversely affect our business. Changes in our credit profile could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms for our purchases or require us to post security or letters of credit prior to payment. Due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. This, in turn, could cause us to be unable to operate 1 or more of our refineries at full capacity. Changes in laws or standards affecting the transportation of North American crude oil by rail could significantly impact our operations, and as a result cause our costs to increase. Investigations into past rail accidents involving the transport of crude oil have prompted government agencies and other interested parties to call for increased regulation of the transport of crude oil by rail including in the areas of crude oil constituents, rail car design, routing of trains and other matters. Regulation governing shipments of petroleum crude oil by rail requires shippers to properly test and classify petroleum crude oil and further requires shippers to treat Class 3 petroleum crude oil transported by rail in tank cars as a Packing Group I or II hazardous material only, which creates further classification and testing requirements, along with more severe penalties for violations. The DOT issued additional rules and regulations that require rail carriers to provide certain notifications to State agencies along routes utilized by trains over a certain length carrying crude oil, enhance safety training standards under the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, require each railroad or contractor to develop and submit a training program to perform regular oversight and annual written reviews and establish enhanced tank car standards and operational controls for high hazard flammable trains. These rules and any further changes in law, regulations or industry standards that require us to reduce the volatile or flammable constituents in crude oil that is transported by rail, alter the design or standards for rail cars we use, change the routing or scheduling of trains carrying crude oil, or any other changes that detrimentally affect the economics of delivering North American crude oil by rail to our, or subsequently to third party, refineries, could increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to service our indebtedness. We could incur substantial costs or disruptions in our business if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits and authorizations or otherwise comply with health, safety, environmental and other laws and regulations. Our operations require numerous permits and authorizations under various laws and regulations. These authorizations and permits are subject to revocation, renewal or modification and can require operational changes to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and or health and safety. A violation of authorization or permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and or facility shutdowns. In addition, major modifications of our operations could require modifications to our existing permits or upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment. Any or all of these matters could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. We may incur significant liability under, or costs and capital expenditures to comply with, environmental and health and safety regulations, which are complex and change frequently. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the handling of petroleum and other regulated materials, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and remediation of discharges of petroleum and petroleum products, characteristics and composition of gasoline and distillates and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Our operations are also subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. We cannot predict what additional environmental, health and safety legislation or regulations may be adopted in the future, or how existing or future laws or regulations may be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. 43 Certain environmental laws impose strict, and in certain circumstances joint and several liability for, costs of investigation and cleanup of such spills, discharges or releases on owners and operators of, as well as persons who arrange for treatment or disposal of regulated materials at contaminated sites. Under these laws, we may incur liability or be required to pay penalties for past contamination, and third parties may assert claims against us for damages allegedly arising out of any past or future contamination. The potential penalties and clean up costs for past or future releases or spills, the failure of prior owners of our facilities to complete their clean up obligations, the liability to third parties for damage to their property, or the need to address newly discovered information or conditions that may require a response could be significant, and the payment of these amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. Our indebtedness may significantly affect our financial flexibility in the future. As of December 31, 2018 , we have total debt of $1,974.7 million , excluding deferred debt issuance costs of $410 million and our PBF LLC Affiliate note payable with PBF Energy that eliminates in consolidation at the PBF Energy level, and we could incur an additional $1,420.1 million under our credit facilities. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our strategy includes executing future refinery and logistics acquisitions. Any significant acquisition would likely require us to incur additional indebtedness in order to finance all or a portion of such acquisition. The level of our indebtedness has several important consequences for our future operations, including that a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes; under certain circumstances, covenants contained in our existing debt arrangements limit our ability to borrow additional funds, dispose of assets and make certain investments; in certain circumstances these covenants also require us to meet or maintain certain financial tests, which may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our industry, such as being able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities when they arise; our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and we may be at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; and we may be more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions. Our indebtedness increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations, certain of which contain cross default and or cross acceleration provisions. Our, and our subsidiaries , ability to meet future principal obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which in turn will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay our indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may be required to sell assets, to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing. Refinancing may not be possible and additional financing may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Despite our level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt, which could exacerbate the risks described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future including additional secured or unsecured debt. Although our debt instruments and financing arrangements contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. To the extent new debt is added to our currently anticipated debt levels, the leverage risks described above would increase. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. 44 Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may limit our ability to undertake certain types of transactions. Various covenants in our debt instruments and other financing arrangements may restrict our and our subsidiaries financial flexibility in a number of ways. Our indebtedness subjects us to financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments and investments, consummate certain asset sales or asset swaps, conduct businesses other than our current businesses, or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. Some of these debt instruments also require our subsidiaries to satisfy or maintain certain financial tests in certain circumstances. Our subsidiaries ability to meet these financial tests can be affected by events beyond our control and they may not meet such tests. Provisions in our indentures could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of our indentures could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a change in control as described in the indentures governing the Senior Notes and PBFX Senior Notes (both of which are defined below), holders of our notes could require us to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, at the date of repurchase. Our future credit ratings could adversely affect the cost of our borrowing as well as our ability to obtain credit in the future. Our Senior Notes (as defined below) are rated BB by Standard & Poor Rating Services and B1 by Moody Investors Service. Any adverse effect on our credit rating may increase our cost of borrowing or hinder our ability to raise financing in the capital markets, which would impair our ability to grow our business and make cash distributions to our shareholders. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure and PBF Energy Class A Common Stock PBF Energy is the managing member of PBF LLC and its only material asset is its interest in PBF LLC. Accordingly, PBF Energy depends upon distributions from PBF LLC and its subsidiaries to pay its taxes, meet its other obligations and or pay dividends in the future. PBF Energy is a holding company and all of its operations are conducted through subsidiaries of PBF LLC. PBF Energy has no independent means of generating revenue and no material assets other than its ownership interest in PBF LLC. We depend on the earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including our indebtedness, tax liabilities and obligations to make payments under a tax receivable agreement entered into with PBF LLC Series A and PBF LLC Series B unitholders (the Tax Receivable Agreement ). If we do not receive such cash distributions, dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to meet our obligations and or pay dividends. PBF Energy, as the sole managing partner of PBF LLC, may cause PBF LLC to make distributions to its members in an amount sufficient to enable PBF Energy to cover all applicable taxes at assumed tax rates, to make payments owed by PBF Energy under the Tax Receivable Agreement, and to pay other obligations and dividends, if any, declared by PBF Energy. To the extent we need funds and any of our subsidiaries is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of our financing or other contractual arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, such restrictions could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. The new PBF Holding asset based revolving credit agreement (the Revolving Credit Facility ), the PBF Holding 7.00% senior notes due 2023 (the 2023 Senior Notes ), the PBF Holding 7.25% senior notes due 2025 (the 2025 Senior Notes , and together with the 2023 Senior Notes, the Senior Notes ), and certain of our other outstanding debt arrangements include a restricted payment covenant, which restricts the ability of PBF Holding to make distributions to us, and we anticipate our future debt will contain a similar restriction. PBFX five year, $500.0 million amended and restated revolving credit facility (the PBFX Revolving Credit Facility ) and PBFX 45 indenture governing its PBFX 2023 Senior Notes (as defined in Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis) also contain covenants that limit or restrict PBFX ability and the ability of its restricted subsidiaries to make distributions and other restricted payments and restrict PBFX ability to incur liens and enter into burdensome agreements. In addition, there may be restrictions on payments by our subsidiaries under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. For example, PBF Holding is generally prohibited under Delaware law from making a distribution to a member to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, liabilities of the limited liability company (with certain exceptions) exceed the fair value of its assets, and PBFX is subject to a similar prohibition. As a result, we may be unable to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligations and make payments to PBF Energy stockholders, if any. The rights of other members of PBF LLC may conflict with the interests of PBF Energy Class A common stockholders. The interests of the other members of PBF LLC, which include current and former directors and officers, may not in all cases be aligned with PBF Energy Class A common stockholders interests. For example, these members may have different tax positions which could influence their positions, including regarding whether and when we dispose of assets and whether and when we incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the Tax Receivable Agreement. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration these tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to PBF Energy Class A common stockholders or us. See Certain Relationships and Related Transactions IPO Related Agreements in our 2019 Proxy Statement. Under the Tax Receivable Agreement, PBF Energy is required to pay the former and current holders of PBF LLC Series A Units and PBF LLC Series B Units for certain realized or assumed tax benefits PBF Energy may claim arising in connection with prior offerings and future exchanges of PBF LLC Series A Units for shares of its Class A Common Stock and related transactions. The indentures governing the Senior Notes allow PBF LLC, under certain circumstances, to make distributions sufficient for PBF Energy to pay its obligation under the Tax Receivable Agreement, and such amounts are expected to be substantial. PBF Energy is party to a Tax Receivable Agreement that provides for the payment from time to time by PBF Energy to the current and former holders of PBF LLC Series A Units and PBF LLC Series B Units of 85% of the benefits, if any, that PBF Energy is deemed to realize as a result of (i) the increases in tax basis resulting from its acquisitions of PBF LLC Series A Units, including such acquisitions in connection with its prior offerings or in the future and (ii) certain other tax benefits related to its entering into the Tax Receivable Agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. See Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. We expect that the payments that PBF Energy may make under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be substantial. As of December 31, 2018 , PBF Energy has recognized a liability for the Tax Receivable Agreement of $3735 million reflecting PBF Energy estimate of the undiscounted amounts that it expects to pay under the agreement due to exchanges that occurred prior to that date, and to range over the next five years from approximately $15.0 million to $65.0 million per year and decline thereafter. Future payments by PBF Energy in respect of subsequent exchanges of PBF LLC Series A Units would be in addition to these amounts and are expected to be material as well. If PBF Energy does not have taxable income, PBF Energy generally is not required (absent a change of control or circumstances requiring an early termination payment) to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement for that taxable year because no benefit will have been actually realized. However, any tax benefits that do not result in realized benefits in a given tax year will likely generate tax attributes that may be utilized to generate benefits in previous or future tax years. The utilization of such tax attributes will result in payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. The foregoing numbers are merely estimates based on assumptions that are subject to change due to various factors, including, among other factors, the timing of exchanges of PBF LLC Series A Units for shares of PBF Energy Class A common stock as contemplated by the Tax Receivable Agreement, the price of PBF Energy Class A common stock at the time of such exchanges, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, and the amount and timing of PBF Energy income. The actual payments under the 46 Tax Receivable Agreement could differ materially. It is possible that future transactions or events could increase or decrease the actual tax benefits realized and the corresponding Tax Receivable Agreement payments. There may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if, as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise, (i) the payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement exceed the actual benefits PBF Energy realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement, and or (ii) distributions to PBF Energy by PBF LLC are not sufficient to permit PBF Energy, after it has paid its taxes and other obligations, to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. The payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement are not conditi1d upon any recipient continued ownership of us. In certain cases, payments by PBF Energy under the Tax Receivable Agreement may be accelerated and or significantly exceed the actual benefits it realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. These provisions may deter a change in control of the Company. The Tax Receivable Agreement provides that upon certain changes of control, or if, at any time, PBF Energy elects an early termination of the Tax Receivable Agreement, PBF Energy (or its successor s) obligations with respect to exchanged or acquired PBF LLC Series A Units (whether exchanged or acquired before or after such transaction) would be based on certain assumptions, including (i) that PBF Energy would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the Tax Receivable Agreement and (ii) that the subsidiaries of PBF LLC will sell certain nonamortizable assets (and realize certain related tax benefits) no later than a specified date. Moreover, in each of these instances, PBF Energy would be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value (at a discount rate equal to LIBOR plus 100 basis points) of the anticipated future tax benefits (based on the foregoing assumptions). Accordingly, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement may be made years in advance of the actual realization, if any, of the anticipated future tax benefits and may be significantly greater than the actual benefits PBF Energy realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. Assuming that the market value of a share of PBF Energy Class A common stock equals $3267 per share (the closing price on December 31, 2018 ) and that LIBOR were to be 185% , we estimate that, as of December 31, 2018 the aggregate amount of these accelerated payments would have been approximately $327.7 million if triggered immediately on such date. In these situations, PBF Energy obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. PBF Energy may not be able to finance its obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement and its existing indebtedness may limit its subsidiaries ability to make distributions to PBF Energy to pay these obligations. These provisions may deter a potential sale of our Company to a third party and may otherwise make it less likely that a third party would enter into a change of control transaction with us. Moreover, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be based on the tax reporting positions that PBF Energy determines in accordance with the Tax Receivable Agreement. PBF Energy will not be reimbursed for any payments previously made under the Tax Receivable Agreement if the Internal Revenue Service subsequently disallows part or all of the tax benefits that gave rise to such prior payments. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the Tax Receivable Agreement that are significantly in excess of the benefits that PBF Energy actually realized in respect of (i) the increases in tax basis resulting from our purchases or exchanges of PBF LLC Series A Units and (ii) certain other tax benefits related to PBF Energy entering into the Tax Receivable Agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement. PBF Energy cannot assure you that it will continue to declare dividends or have the available cash to make dividend payments. Although PBF Energy currently intends to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends on its Class A common stock, the declaration, amount and payment of any dividends will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors. PBF Energy is not obligated under any applicable laws, its governing documents or any contractual agreements with its existing and prior owners or otherwise to declare or pay any dividends or other distributions (other than the obligations of PBF LLC to make tax distributions to its members). Our board of directors may take into account, among other things, general economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, plans for expansion, including acquisitions, tax, legal, regulatory and contractual restrictions and implications, including under our subsidiaries outstanding debt 47 documents, and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant in determining whether to declare or pay any dividend. Because PBF Energy is a holding company with no material assets (other than the equity interests of its direct subsidiary), its cash flow and ability to pay dividends is dependent upon the financial results and cash flows of its indirect subsidiaries PBF Holding and PBFX and their respective operating subsidiaries and the distribution or other payment of cash to it in the form of dividends or otherwise. The direct and indirect subsidiaries of PBF Energy are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to make any funds available to it other than in the case of certain intercompany transactions. As a result, if PBF Energy does not declare or pay dividends you may not receive any return on an investment in PBF Energy Class A common stock unless you sell PBF Energy Class A common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. Anti takeover and certain other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage or delay a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. Among other things, these provisions authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; prohibit stockholder action by written consent; restrict certain business combinations with stockholders who obtain beneficial ownership of a certain percentage of our outstanding common stock; provide that special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or the board of directors, and establish advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates for election as directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; and provide that our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 75% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote. These anti takeover provisions and other provisions of Delaware law may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company. Certain provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of PBF Energy Class A common stock. The market price of PBF Energy Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. The market price of PBF Energy Class A common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations due to a number of factors including variations in actual or anticipated operating results or dividends, if any, to stockholders; changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates of securities analysts; market conditions in the oil refining industry and volatility in commodity prices; the impact of disruptions to crude or feedstock supply to any of our refineries, including disruptions due to problems with third party logistics infrastructure; litigation and government investigations; the timing and announcement of any potential acquisitions and subsequent impact of any future acquisitions on our capital structure, financial condition or results of operations; changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations or enforcement thereof; general economic and stock market conditions; and the availability for sale, or sales by PBF Energy or its senior management, of a significant number of shares of its Class A common stock in the public market. 48 In addition, the stock markets generally may experience significant volatility, often unrelated to the operating performance of the individual companies whose securities are publicly traded. These and other factors may cause the market price of PBF Energy Class A common stock to decrease significantly, which in turn would adversely affect the value of your investment. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. Risks Related to Our Ownership of PBFX We depend upon PBFX for a substantial portion of our refineries logistics needs and have obligations for minimum volume commitments in our commercial agreements with PBFX. We depend on PBFX to receive, handle, store and transfer crude oil, petroleum products and natural gas for us from our operations and sources located throughout the United States and Canada in support of certain of our refineries under long term, fee based commercial agreements with our subsidiaries. These commercial agreements have an initial term ranging from 1 to fifteen years and generally include minimum quarterly commitments and inflation escalators. If we fail to meet the minimum commitments during any calendar quarter, we will be required to make a shortfall payment quarterly to PBFX equal to the volume of the shortfall multiplied by the applicable fee. PBFX operations are subject to all of the risks and operational hazards inherent in receiving, handling, storing and transferring crude oil, petroleum products and natural gas, including damages to its facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; mechanical or structural failures at PBFX facilities or at third party facilities on which its operations are dependent; curtailments of operations relative to severe seasonal weather; inadvertent damage to our facilities from construction, farm and utility equipment; and other hazards. Any of these events or factors could result in severe damage or destruction to PBFX assets or the temporary or permanent shut down of PBFX facilities. If PBFX is unable to serve our logistics needs, our ability to operate our refineries and receive crude oil and distribute products could be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as of December 31, 2018 , PBF LLC owns 19,953,631 common units representing 44.0% limited partner interest in PBFX. The inability of PBFX to continue operations, perform under its commercial arrangements with our subsidiaries or the occurrence of any of these risks or operational hazards, could also adversely impact the value of our investment in PBFX and, because PBFX is a consolidated entity, our business, financial condition and results of operations. PBF Energy will be required to pay taxes on its share of taxable income from PBF LLC and its other subsidiary flow through entities (including PBFX), regardless of the amount of cash distributions PBF Energy receives from PBF LLC. The holders of limited liability company interests in PBF LLC, including PBF Energy, generally have to include for purposes of calculating their U.S. federal, state and local income taxes their share of any taxable income of PBF LLC, regardless of whether such holders receive cash distributions from PBF LLC. PBF Energy ultimately may not receive cash distributions from PBF LLC equal to its share of the taxable income of PBF LLC or even equal to the actual tax due with respect to that income. For example, PBF LLC is required to include in taxable income PBF LLC allocable share of PBFX taxable income and gains (such share to be determined pursuant to the partnership agreement of PBFX), regardless of the amount of cash distributions received by PBF LLC from PBFX, and such taxable income and gains will flow through to PBF Energy to the extent of its allocable share of the taxable income of PBF LLC. As a result, at certain times, the amount of cash otherwise ultimately available 49 to PBF Energy on account of its indirect interest in PBFX may not be sufficient for PBF Energy to pay the amount of taxes it will owe on account of its indirect interests in PBFX. If PBFX was to be treated as a corporation, rather than as a partnership, for U.S. federal income tax purposes or if PBFX was otherwise subject to entity level taxation, PBFX cash available for distribution to its unitholders, including to us, would be reduced, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of units, including the units held by us. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including PBFX, or an investment in its common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time the U.S. Congress considers substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would affect publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for PBFX to meet the exception to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in PBFX common units. If PBFX were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it would pay U.S. federal income tax on income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 21% under the TCJA, and would likely be liable for state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to PBFX unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to PBFX unitholders. Because taxes would be imposed upon PBFX as a corporation, the cash available for distribution to PBFX unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, PBFX treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after tax return to PBFX unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the units. All of the executive officers and a majority of the directors of PBF GP are also current or former officers or directors of PBF Energy. Conflicts of interest could arise as a result of this arrangement. PBF Energy indirectly owns and controls PBF GP, and appoints all of its officers and directors. All of the executive officers and a majority of the directors of PBF GP are also current or former officers or directors of PBF Energy. These individuals will devote significant time to the business of PBFX. Although the directors and officers of PBF GP have a fiduciary duty to manage PBF GP in a manner that is beneficial to PBF Energy, as directors and officers of PBF GP they also have certain duties to PBFX and its unitholders. Conflicts of interest may arise between PBF Energy and its affiliates, including PBF GP, on the 1 hand, and PBFX and its unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, PBF GP may favor its own interests and the interests of PBFX over the interests of PBF Energy. In certain circumstances, PBF GP may refer any conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of interest between PBFX, on the 1 hand, and PBF Energy, on the other hand, to its conflicts committee (which must consist entirely of independent directors) for resolution, which conflicts committee must act in the best interests of the public unitholders of PBFX. As a result, PBF GP may manage the business of PBFX in a way that may differ from the best interests of PBF Energy or its stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS N1 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES
