CIK: 1538822
Company Name: PACIFIC COAST OIL TRUST
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-03-08
Accession Number: 0001104659-19-013639


Item 1 Business. Pacific Coast Oil Trust (the Trust ) is a statutory trust formed in January 2012 under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act pursuant to a Trust Agreement (as amended, the Trust Agreement ) among Pacific Coast Energy Company LP ( PCEC ), as trustor, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (the Trustee ), and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as Delaware Trustee (the Delaware Trustee ). The Trust was created to acquire and hold net profits and royalty interests in certain oil and natural gas properties located in California for the benefit of the Trust unitholders. On May 8, 2012, the Trust and PCEC entered into a Conveyance of Net Profits Interests and Overriding Royalty Interest (the Conveyance ), pursuant to which PCEC conveyed to the Trust the net profits interests ( Net Profits Interests ) and a royalty interest ( Royalty Interest ), which are collectively referred to herein as the Conveyed Interests, in certain oil and natural gas properties located onshore in California (the Underlying Properties ). The Conveyed Interests represent undivided interests in the Underlying Properties. The Conveyed Interests were conveyed by PCEC to the Trust concurrently with the initial public offering of the Trust units of beneficial interest ( Trust Units ) in May 2012 The Conveyed Interests are passive in nature and neither the Trust nor the Trustee has any control over, or responsibility for, costs relating to the operation of the Underlying Properties. The Underlying Properties consist of (i) the proved developed reserves as of December 31, 2011 on the Underlying Properties, which are referred to as the Developed Properties, and (ii) all other development potential on the Underlying Properties, which are referred to as the Remaining Properties. Production from the Developed Properties attributable to the Trust is produced from wells that, because they have already been drilled, generally require limited additional capital expenditures. Production from the Remaining Properties that is attributable to the Trust requires capital expenditures for the drilling of wells and installation of infrastructure. PCEC supplies the required capital on behalf of the Trust during the drilling and development period; however, because the costs initially incurred exceed gross proceeds, the Remaining Properties currently have negative net profits. During this period of negative net profits, instead of being paid net profits, the Trust is paid 7.5% of the proceeds (free of any production or development costs but bearing the proportionate share of production and property taxes and post production costs) attributable to the sale of all oil and natural gas production from the Remaining Properties located on PCEC Orcutt properties, including but not limited to PCEC interest in such production (the Royalty Interest Proceeds ). Once revenues from the Remaining Properties have paid back PCEC for the cumulative costs it has advanced on behalf of the Trust, then the NPI on the Remaining Properties will be paid out ( NPI Payout ) in place of the Royalty Interest Proceeds. Collectively, these interests entitle the Trust to receive the following Developed Properties 80% of the net profits from the sale of oil and natural gas production from the Developed Properties. Remaining Properties 25% of the net profits from the sale of oil and natural gas production from all of the Remaining Properties, or the Royalty Interest Proceeds. The Trust has no employees. The business and affairs of the Trust are administered by the Trustee. The Trust purpose is to hold the Conveyed Interests, to distribute to the Trust unitholders cash that the Trust receives in respect of the Conveyed Interests and to perform certain administrative functions in respect of the Conveyed Interests and the Trust Units. The Trust does not conduct any operations or activities. The Trustee has no authority over or responsibility for, and no involvement with, any aspect of the oil and natural gas operations or other activities on the Underlying Properties. The Delaware Trustee has only minimal rights and duties as are necessary to satisfy the requirements of the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. The Trust derives all or substantially all of its income and cash flow from the Conveyed Interests. The Trust is treated as a grantor trust for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Trustee can authorize the Trust to borrow m1y to pay Trust administrative or incidental expenses that exceed cash held by the Trust. The Trustee may authorize the Trust to borrow from the Trustee or an affiliate as a lender provided the terms of the loan are fair to the Trust unitholders and similar to the terms it would grant to a similarly situated commercial customer with whom it did not have a fiduciary relationship, although neither the Trustee nor any of its affiliates has any intention of lending or obligation to lend funds to the Trust. The Trustee may also deposit funds awaiting distribution in an account with itself, if the interest paid to the Trust at least equals amounts paid by the Trustee on similar deposits, and make other short term investments with the funds distributed to the Trust. 4 Table of Contents In connection with the formation of the Trust, the Trust entered into several agreements with PCEC that impose obligations upon PCEC that are enforceable by the Trustee on behalf of the Trust, including the Conveyance, an operating and services agreement and a registration rights agreement. The operating and services agreement provides that PCEC must perform specified operating and informational services on behalf of the Trust in a good and workmanlike manner in accordance with the sound and prudent practices of providers of similar services. The Trustee has the power and authority under the Trust Agreement to enforce these agreements on behalf of the Trust. The Trustee may from time to time supplement or amend the Conveyance, the operating and services agreement and the registration rights agreement without the approval of Trust unitholders in order to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any defective or inconsistent provisions, to grant any benefit to all of the Trust unitholders, to comply with changes in applicable law or to change the name of the Trust. Such supplement or amendment, however, may not materially adversely affect the interests of the Trust unitholders. Additionally, the Trustee may, from time to time, supplement or amend these agreements without the approval of the Trust unitholders as long as such supplement or amendment would not materially increase the costs or expenses of the Trust or adversely affect the economic interest of the Trust unitholders; however, the Trustee may not modify or amend the Conveyance if the modification or amendment would change the character of the Conveyed Interests in such a way that the Conveyed Interests become working interests or that the Trust would fail to continue to qualify as a grantor trust for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Trustee is entitled to rely upon a written opinion of counsel or certification of PCEC as conclusive evidence that any such amendment or supplement is authorized. Other than Trust administrative expenses, including any reserves established by the Trustee for future liabilities, the Trust only use of cash is for distributions to Trust unitholders. Available funds are the excess cash, if any, received by the Trust from the Conveyed Interests and other sources (such as interest earned on any amounts reserved by the Trustee) in that month, over the Trust expenses paid for that month. Available funds are reduced by any cash the Trustee determines to hold as a reserve against future expenses. The Trustee may create a cash reserve to pay for future liabilities of the Trust. As of December 31, 2018, the Trust had cash reserves of $0 for future Trust expenses. Commencing with the distribution to unitholders payable in the first month of 2019, the Trustee intends to withhold the greater of $10,000 or 35% of the funds otherwise available for distribution each month to gradually build a cash reserve of approximately $350,000. Accordingly, in February 2019, the Trustee withheld approximately $17,000 from the funds otherwise available for distribution. The Trustee may increase or decrease the targeted amount at any time, and may increase or decrease the rate at which it is withholding funds to build the cash reserve at any time, without advance notice to the unitholders. Cash held in reserve will be invested as required by the trust agreement. Any cash reserved in excess of the amount necessary to pay or provide for the payment of future known, anticipated or contingent expenses or liabilities eventually will be distributed to unitholders, together with interest earned on the funds. If the Trustee determines that the cash on hand and the cash to be received are, or will be, insufficient to cover the Trust liabilities, the Trustee may cause the Trust to borrow funds to pay liabilities of the Trust. The Trustee may also cause the Trust to mortgage its assets to secure payment of the indebtedness. If the Trustee causes the Trust to borrow funds, the Trust unitholders will not receive distributions until the borrowed funds are repaid. The Trust calculates net profits and royalties from the Underlying Properties separately for each of the Developed Properties and the Remaining Properties. Any excess costs for either the Developed Properties or the Remaining Properties will not reduce net profits calculated for the other. Each month, the Trustee pays Trust obligations and expenses and distributes to the Trust unitholders the remaining proceeds, if any, received from the Conveyed Interests. The cash held by the Trustee as a reserve against future liabilities or for distribution at the next distribution date may be invested in a limited number of permitted investments. Alternatively, cash held for distribution at the next distribution date may be held in a noninterest bearing account. PCEC provided the Trust with a $10 million letter of credit to be used by the Trust if its cash on hand (including available cash reserves) is not sufficient to pay ordinary course administrative expenses as they become due. Further, PCEC may loan funds to the Trust necessary to pay such expenses, and PCEC has agreed to do so under certain circumstances and did so during 2016, early 2017 and May 2018. Any funds provided under the letter of credit or loaned by PCEC may only be used for the payment of current accounts or other obligations to trade creditors in connection with obtaining goods or services or for the payment of other accrued current liabilities arising in the ordinary course of the Trust business, and may not be used to satisfy Trust indebtedness. If the Trust draws on the letter of credit or PCEC loans funds to the Trust, no further distributions will be made to Trust unitholders (except in respect of any previously determined monthly cash distribution amount) until such amounts drawn or borrowed, including interest thereon, are repaid in full. Any loan made by PCEC will be on an unsecured basis, and the terms of such loan will be substantially the same as those which would be obtained in an arms length transaction between PCEC and an unaffiliated third party. In May 2018, the Trust borrowed $80,535 from PCEC as Trust expenses exceeded income form the Conveyed Intersests for the month of March 2018, and repaid the entire amount owed, including interest of $394, in June 2018. In February 2016, the Trust borrowed $232,000 from PCEC as Trust expenses exceeded income from the Conveyed Interests for the month of February and March 2016. Subsequent borrowings, including interest thereon, and repayments added an additional $900,450 to the original $232,000 amount, resulting in an 5 Table of Contents outstanding note balance as of December 31, 2016, of $1,132,450 owed to PCEC, which was fully repaid in March 2017 with the proceeds received by the Trust. If the Trust draws on the letter of credit or PCEC loans additional funds to the Trust, no further distributions will be made to Trust unitholders (except in respect of any previously determined monthly cash distribution amount) until such amounts drawn or borrowed, including interest thereon, are repaid. The Trust is not subject to any pre set termination provisions based on a maximum volume of oil or natural gas to be produced or the passage of time. The Trust will dissolve upon the earliest to occur of the following (1) the Trust, upon approval of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Trust Units, sells the Conveyed Interests, (2) the annual cash proceeds received by the Trust attributable to the Conveyed Interests, in the aggregate, is less than $20 million for each of any 2 consecutive years, (3) the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Trust Units vote in favor of dissolution or (4) the Trust is judicially dissolved. Upon dissolution of the Trust, the Trustee will sell all of the Trust assets, either by private sale or public auction, and after payment or the making of reasonable provision for payment of all liabilities of the Trust, distribute the net proceeds of the sale to the Trust unitholders. Marketing and Post Production Services Pursuant to the terms of the Conveyance, PCEC has the responsibility to market, or cause to be marketed, the oil and natural gas production attributable to the Conveyed Interests. The terms of the Conveyance restrict PCEC from charging any fee for marketing production attributable to the Net Profits Interests other than fees for marketing paid to non affiliates. Accordingly, a marketing fee will not be deducted (other than fees paid to non affiliates) in the calculation of the Net Profits Interests; however, the terms of the Conveyance provide that costs and expenses PCEC allocates to marketing production from the Underlying Properties are deducted from the calculation of gross profits. The Royalty Interest Proceeds are free of any production or development costs but are subject to a proportionate share of production and property taxes and post production costs. The net profits and royalties to the Trust from the sales of oil and natural gas production from the Underlying Properties attributable to the Conveyed Interests are determined based on the same price that PCEC receives for sales of oil and natural gas production attributable to PCEC interest in the Underlying Properties. However, if the oil or natural gas is processed, the net profits and royalties receive the same processing upgrade or downgrade as PCEC. During the year ended December 31, 2018, PCEC sold the oil produced from the Underlying Properties to third party oil purchasers. Oil production from the Underlying Properties is typically transported by pipeline from the field to a gathering facility or refinery. PCEC sells the majority of the oil production from the Underlying Properties under contracts using market sensitive pricing. The price received by PCEC for the crude oil production from the Underlying Properties is based upon published industry standard market sensitive regional price postings, adjusted based upon delivery location and actual quality of the crude produced. In 2018 and 2017, Phillips 66 accounted for 88% and 95%, respectively, of PCEC net sales. All natural gas produced by PCEC at Orcutt Hill is consumed in the lifting and production of the Diatomite and Conventional Orcutt crude; all other natural gas produced is marketed and sold to third party purchasers, based upon published standard industry market sensitive regional price postings for the natural gas. Competition and Markets The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. PCEC competes with major oil and natural gas companies and independent oil and natural gas companies for oil and natural gas, equipment, personnel and markets for the sale of oil and natural gas. Many of these competitors are financially stronger than PCEC, but even financially troubled competitors can affect the market because of their need to sell oil and natural gas at any price to attempt to maintain cash flow. The Trust is subject to the same competitive conditions as PCEC and other companies in the oil and natural gas industry. Oil and natural gas compete with other forms of energy available to customers, primarily based on price. These alternate forms of energy include electricity, coal and fuel oils. Changes in the availability or price of oil, natural gas or other forms of energy, as well as business conditions, conservation, legislation, regulations and the ability to convert to alternate fuels and other forms of energy, may affect the demand for oil and natural gas. Price fluctuations for oil and natural gas will directly impact Trust distributions, estimates of reserves attributable to the Trust interests and estimated and actual future net revenues to the Trust. In view of the many uncertainties that affect the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, neither the Trust nor PCEC can make reliable predictions of future oil and natural gas supply and demand, future product prices or the effect of future product prices on the Trust. 6 Table of Contents Description of Trust Units Each Trust Unit is a unit of beneficial interest in the Trust assets and is entitled to receive cash distributions from the Trust on a pro rata basis. The Trust Units are in book entry form only and are not represented by certificates. The Trust had 38,583,158 Trust Units outstanding as of December 31, 2018. Distributions and Income Computations Each month, the Trustee determines the amount of funds, if any, available for distribution to the Trust unitholders. Available funds are the excess cash, if any, received by the Trust from the Conveyed Interests and other sources (such as interest earned on any amounts reserved by the Trustee) that month, over the Trust liabilities for that month. Available funds are reduced by any cash the Trustee determines to hold as a reserve against future liabilities. The holders of Trust Units as of the applicable record date (generally within five business days after the last business day of each calendar month) are entitled to monthly distributions payable on or before the 10th business day after the record date. Unless otherwise advised by counsel or the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ), the Trustee will treat the income and expenses of the Trust for each month as belonging to the Trust unitholders of record on the monthly record date. Trust unitholders generally will recognize income and expenses for tax purposes in the month the Trust receives or pays those amounts, rather than in the month the Trust distributes the cash to which such income or expenses (as applicable) relate, which may cause minor variances. For example, the Trustee could establish a reserve in 1 month that would not result in a tax deduction until a later month. See Federal Income Tax Matters. Transfer of Trust Units Trust unitholders may transfer their Trust Units in accordance with the Trust Agreement. The Trustee will not require either the transferor or transferee to pay a service charge for any transfer of a Trust Unit. The Trustee may require payment of any tax or other governmental charge imposed for a transfer. The Trustee may treat the owner of any Trust Unit as shown by its records as the owner of the Trust Unit. The Trustee will not be considered to know about any claim or demand on a Trust Unit by any party except the record owner. A person who acquires a Trust Unit after any monthly record date will not be entitled to the distribution relating to that monthly record date. Delaware law will govern all matters affecting the title, ownership or transfer of Trust Units. Periodic Reports The Trustee files all required Trust federal and state income tax and information returns. The Trustee prepares and mails to Trust unitholders annual reports directing them to correctly report their share of the income and deductions of the Trust. The Trustee also causes to be prepared and filed reports that are required to be filed under the Exchange Act and by the rules of The New York Stock Exchange, and causes the Trust to comply with applicable provisions of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, including but not limited to, establishing, evaluating and maintaining a system of internal control over financial reporting. Pursuant to the operating and services agreement, PCEC has agreed to provide to the Trust such services as are necessary for the Trust and the Trustee to comply with the Trust Agreement and Article IV of the Conveyance, and such other operating and administrative services of similar character and scope to the foregoing that the Trustee may reasonably request that PCEC provide, including accounting, bookkeeping and informational services and other services as may be necessary for the preparation of reports the Trust is or may be required to prepare and or file in accordance with applicable tax and securities laws, exchange listing rules and other requirements, including reserve reports and tax returns (collectively, the Administrative Services ). Liability of Trust Unitholders Under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act and the Trust Agreement, Trust unitholders are entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Nevertheless, courts in jurisdictions outside of Delaware could decline to give effect to such limitation. Voting Rights of Trust Unitholders The Trustee or Trust unitholders owning at least 10% of the outstanding Trust Units may call meetings of Trust unitholders. The Trust will be responsible for all costs associated with calling a meeting of Trust unitholders unless such meeting is called by Trust unitholders, in which case the unitholders that called such meeting will be responsible for all costs associated with calling such meeting. Meetings must be held in such location as is designated by the Trustee in the notice of such meeting. The Trustee must send notice of the time and place of the meeting and the matters to be acted upon to all of the Trust unitholders at least 20 days and not more than 60 days before the meeting. Trust unitholders representing a majority of Trust Units outstanding must be present or 7 Table of Contents represented by proxy to have a quorum. Each Trust unitholder is entitled to 1 vote for each Trust unit owned. Abstentions and broker non votes shall not be deemed to be a vote cast. Unless otherwise required by the Trust Agreement, a matter may be approved or disapproved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Trust Units present in person or by proxy at a meeting where there is a quorum. This is true, even if a majority of the total Trust Units did not approve it. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Trust Units is required to dissolve the Trust; amend the Trust Agreement (except with respect to certain matters that do not adversely affect the rights of Trust unitholders in any material respect); or approve the sale of all or any material part of the assets of the Trust (including the sale of the Conveyed Interests). In addition, certain amendments to the Trust Agreement may be made by the Trustee without approval of the Trust unitholders. Computation of Net Profits Interests and Overriding Royalty Interest The provisions of the Conveyance governing the computation of the net profits and royalties are detailed and extensive. The following information summarizes the material provisions of the Conveyance related to the computation of the net profits and royalties, but is qualified in its entirety by the text of the Conveyance, which is filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report. Net Profits Interests The amounts paid to the Trust for each Net Profits Interest are based on, among other things, the definitions of gross profits and net profits contained in the Conveyance and described below. Under the Conveyance, net profits are computed monthly. Each calendar month, 80% of the net profits from the sale of oil and natural gas production from the Developed Properties is paid to the Trust generally on or before the eighth business day after the last business day of the following month. For any monthly period during which costs for the Remaining Properties exceed gross proceeds, the Trust is entitled to receive the Royalty Interest Proceeds and the Trust continues to receive such proceeds until the first day of the month following an NPI Payout. In calendar months following an NPI Payout, 25% of the net profits from the sale of oil and natural gas production from all of the Remaining Properties will be paid to the Trust on or before the end of the following month. Due to planned capital expenditures to be made by PCEC on the Remaining Properties for the benefit of the Trust and also as a result of lower commodity prices, PCEC expects the Trust to only receive payments associated with the Remaining Properties in the form of Royalty Interest Proceeds until the NPI Payout occurs, which PCEC estimates will be in approximately 2020. The estimated date on which the NPI Payout is expected to occur is an estimate based on the annual reserve report and changes from time to time. Gross profits means the aggregate amount received by PCEC that is attributable to sales of oil and natural gas production from the Underlying Properties from and after April 1, 2012 (after deducting the appropriate share of all royalties and any overriding royalties, production payments and other similar charges and other than certain excluded proceeds (including, with respect to the Remaining Properties, the Royalty Interest, to the extent paid), as described in the Conveyance), including all proceeds and consideration received (i) for advance payments, (ii) under take or pay and similar provisions of production sales contracts (when credited against the price for delivery of production) and (iii) under balancing arrangements. Gross profits do not include consideration for the transfer or sale of any Underlying Property by PCEC or any subsequent owner to any new owner, unless the Net Profits Interest in such Underlying Property is released (as is permitted under certain circumstances). Gross profits also do not include any amount for oil or natural gas lost in production or marketing or used by the owner of the Underlying Properties in drilling, production and plant operations. Net profits means gross profits less the following costs, expenses and, where applicable, losses, liabilities and damages all as actually incurred by PCEC from and after April 1, 2012 and attributable to production from the Underlying Properties from and after April 1, 2012 (as such Item are reduced by any offset amounts, as described in the Conveyance) all costs for (i) drilling, development, production and abandonment operations, (ii) all direct labor and other services necessary for drilling, operating, producing and maintaining the Underlying Properties and workovers of any wells located on the Underlying Properties, (iii) treatment, dehydration, compression, separation and transportation, (iv) all materials purchased for use on, or in connection with, any of the Underlying Properties and (v) any other operations with respect to the exploration, development or operation of hydrocarbons from the Underlying Properties; 8 Table of Contents all losses, costs, expenses, liabilities and damages with respect to the operation or maintenance of the Underlying Properties for (i) defending, prosecuting, handling, investigating or settling litigation, administrative proceedings, claims, damages, judgments, fines, penalties and other liabilities, (ii) the payment of certain judgments, penalties and other liabilities, (iii) the payment or restitution of any proceeds of hydrocarbons from the Underlying Properties, (iv) complying with applicable local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations, (v) tax or royalty audits and (vi) any other loss, cost, expense, liability or damage with respect to the Underlying Properties not paid or reimbursed under insurance; all taxes, charges and assessments (excluding federal and state income, transfer, mortgage, inheritance, estate, franchise and like taxes) with respect to the ownership of, or production of hydrocarbons from, the Underlying Properties; all insurance premiums attributable to the ownership or operation of the Underlying Properties for insurance actually carried with respect to the Underlying Properties, or any equipment located on any of the Underlying Properties, or incident to the operation or maintenance of the Underlying Properties; all amounts and other consideration for (i) rent and the use of or damage to the surface, (ii) delay rentals, shut in well payments and similar payments and (iii) fees for renewal, extension, modification, amendment, replacement or supplementation of the leases included in the Underlying Properties; all amounts charged by the relevant operator as overhead, administrative or indirect charges specified in the applicable operating agreements or other arrangements covering the Underlying Properties or PCEC operations with respect thereto; to the extent that PCEC is the operator of certain of the Underlying Properties and there is no operating agreement covering such portion of the Underlying Properties, those overhead, administrative or indirect charges that are allocated by PCEC to such portion of the Underlying Properties; if, as a result of the occurrence of the bankruptcy or insolvency or similar occurrence of any purchaser of hydrocarbons produced from the Underlying Properties, any amounts previously credited to the determination of the net profits are reclaimed from PCEC, then the amounts reclaimed; all costs and expenses for recording the Conveyance and, at the applicable times, terminations and or releases thereof; amounts previously included in gross profits but subsequently paid as a refund, interest or penalty; at the option of PCEC (or any subsequent owner of the Underlying Properties), amounts reserved for approved development expenditure projects, including well drilling, recompletion and workover costs, which amounts will at no time exceed $20 million in the aggregate, and will be subject to the limitations described below (provided that such costs shall not be debited from gross profits when actually incurred); and all costs accrued for future plugging and abandonment of any well or facility (provided that such amounts shall not be included as deductions in subsequent periods). Costs deducted in the net profits determination will be reduced by certain offset amounts. The offset amounts are further described in the Conveyance, and include, among other things, certain net proceeds attributable to the treatment or processing of hydrocarbons produced from the Underlying Properties and certain other non production revenues, including salvage value for equipment related to plugged and aband1d wells. If the offset amounts exceed the costs during a monthly period, the ability to use such excess amounts to offset costs will be deferred and utilized as offsets in the next monthly period to the extent such amounts, plus accrued interest thereon, together with other offsets to costs, for the applicable month, are less than the costs arising in such month. The Trust is not liable to the owners of the Underlying Properties, PCEC, or any other operator for any operating, capital or other costs or liabilities attributable to the Underlying Properties. If the net profits relating to the Developed Properties for any computation period is a negative amount, the Trust will receive no payment for the Developed Properties for that period, and any such negative amount will be deducted from gross profits for the Developed Properties in the following computation period for purposes of determining the net profits relating to the Developed Properties for that following computation period. If the net profits relating to the Remaining Properties for any computation period is a negative amount, the Trust is entitled to receive the Royalty Interest Proceeds. 9 Table of Contents Gross profits and net profits are calculated on a cash basis, except that certain costs, primarily ad valorem taxes and expenditures of a material amount, may be determined on an accrual basis. Overriding Royalty Interest For any monthly period during which costs for the Remaining Properties exceed gross proceeds, the Trust is entitled to receive an amount equal to 7.5% of the proceeds attributable to the sale of all production from the Remaining Properties located on PCEC Orcutt properties, including but not limited to PCEC interest in such production (free of any production or development costs but bearing its proportionate share of production and property taxes and post production costs) (the Royalty Interest ). Due to capital expenditures to be made by PCEC on the Remaining Properties for the benefit of the Trust and also as a result of lower commodity prices, PCEC expects the Trust to only receive payments associated with the Remaining Properties in the form of Royalty Interest Proceeds until the NPI Payout occurs, which PCEC estimates will be in approximately 2020. Proceeds from the sale of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas production from the Remaining Properties located on PCEC Orcutt properties in any calendar month means the amount calculated based on actual sales volumes from such properties, in each case after deducting the Trust proportionate share of any taxes levied on the severance or production of the oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas produced from such properties and any property taxes attributable to the oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas produced from such properties; and post production costs, which generally consists of costs incurred to gather, store, compress, transport, process, treat, dehydrate and market the oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas produced, as applicable (excluding costs for marketing services provided by PCEC). Proceeds payable to the Trust from the sale of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas production attributable to the Remaining Properties located on PCEC Orcutt properties in any calendar month are not subject to any deductions for any expenses attributable to exploration, drilling, development, operating, maintenance or any other costs incident to the production of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas attributable to such properties, including any costs to drill, complete or plug and abandon a well. Additionally, costs associated with any completion activities will be borne by PCEC or any third party operator of the well. Additional Provisions If a controversy arises as to the sales price of any production, then for purposes of determining gross profit or the amount of Royalty Interest Proceeds any proceeds that are withheld for any reason (other than at the request of PCEC) are not considered received until such time that the proceeds are actually collected; amounts received and promptly deposited with a nonaffiliated escrow agent will not be considered to have been received until disbursed to it by the escrow agent; and amounts received and not deposited with an escrow agent will be considered to have been received. The Trustee is not obligated to return any cash received from the Conveyed Interests. Any overpayments made to the Trust by PCEC due to adjustments to prior calculations of net profits, royalties or otherwise will reduce future amounts payable to the Trust until PCEC recovers the overpayments plus interest at a prime rate (as described in the Conveyance). The Conveyance generally permits PCEC to transfer without the consent or approval of the Trust unitholders all or any part of its interest in the Underlying Properties, subject to the Conveyed Interests. The Trust unitholders are not entitled to any proceeds of a sale or transfer of PCEC interest. Except in certain cases where the Conveyed Interests are released, following a sale or transfer, the Underlying Properties will continue to be subject to the Conveyed Interests, and the gross profits and if applicable, the royalties, attributable to the transferred property will be calculated for such transferred property on a stand al1 basis (as part of the computation of net profits and royalties described in this Annual Report), paid and distributed by the transferee to the Trust. PCEC will have no further obligations, requirements or responsibilities with respect to any such transferred interests, provided that PCEC delivers to the Trustee an agreement of the transferee of such transferred interests, reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, in which such transferee assumes the responsibility to perform the Administrative Services that PCEC is required to provide to the Trust pursuant to the operating and services agreement relating to the interests being transferred. 10 Table of Contents In addition, PCEC may, without the consent of the Trust unitholders, require the Trust to release the Conveyed Interests associated with any lease that accounts for less than or equal to 0.25% of the total production from the Underlying Properties in the prior twelve months, provided that the Conveyed Interests covered by such releases cannot exceed, during any twelve month period, an aggregate fair market value to the Trust of $500,000. These releases will be made only in connection with a sale by PCEC to a non affiliate of the relevant Underlying Properties, are conditi1d upon an amount equal to the fair market value (net of sales costs) to the Trust of such Conveyed Interests and will be treated as an offset amount against costs and expenses. PCEC has not identified for sale any of the Underlying Properties. As the designated operator of a property included in the Underlying Properties, PCEC may enter into farm out, operating, participation and other similar agreements to develop the property, but any transfers made in connection with such agreements will be made subject to the Conveyed Interests. PCEC may enter into any of these agreements without the consent or approval of the Trustee or any Trust unitholder. PCEC will have the right to release, surrender or abandon its interest in any Underlying Property if PCEC determines in good faith and in accordance with the reasonably prudent operator standard that such Underlying Property that will no longer produce (or be capable of producing) hydrocarbons in paying quantities (determined without regard to the Conveyed Interests). Where PCEC does not operate the Underlying Properties, PCEC is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to exercise its contractual rights to cause the operators of such Underlying Properties to act as a reasonably prudent operator. Upon such release, surrender or abandonment, the portion of the Conveyed Interests relating to the affected property will also be released, surrendered or aband1d, as applicable. PCEC will also have the right to abandon an interest in the Underlying Properties if (a) such abandonment is necessary for health, safety or environmental reasons or (b) the hydrocarbons that would have been produced from the aband1d portion of the Underlying Properties would reasonably be expected to be produced from wells located on the remaining portion of the Underlying Properties. PCEC must maintain books and records sufficient to determine the amounts payable for the Conveyed Interests to the Trust. Monthly and annually, PCEC must deliver to the Trustee a statement of the computation of the net profits for each computation period. The Trustee has the right to inspect and review the books and records maintained by PCEC during normal business hours and upon reasonable notice. Each Trust unitholder and his representatives may examine, for any proper purpose, during reasonable business hours, the records of the Trust and the Trustee relating to the Trust, subject to such restrictions as are set forth in the Trust agreement. Federal Income Tax Matters The following is a summary of certain U.S. income tax matters that may be relevant to the Trust unitholders. This summary is based upon current provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code ), existing and proposed Treasury regulations thereunder and current administrative rulings and court decisions, all of which are subject to changes that may or may not be retroactively applied. No attempt has been made in the following summary to comment on all U.S. federal income tax matters affecting the Trust or the Trust unitholders. The summary has limited application to non U.S. persons and persons subject to special tax treatment such as, without limitation banks, insurance companies or other financial institutions; Trust unitholders subject to the alternative minimum tax; tax exempt organizations; dealers in securities or commodities; regulated investment companies; real estate investment trusts; traders in securities that elect to use a mark to market method of accounting for their securities holdings; non U.S. Trust unitholders that are controlled foreign corporations or passive foreign investment companies ; persons that are S corporations, partnerships or other pass through entities; persons that own their interest in the Trust Units through S corporations, partnerships or other pass through entities; persons that at any time own more than 5% of the aggregate fair market value of the Trust Units; expatriates and certain former citizens or long term residents of the United States; U.S. Trust unitholders whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar; persons who hold the Trust Units as a position in a hedging transaction, straddle, conversion transaction or other risk reduction transaction; or persons deemed to sell the Trust Units under the constructive sale provisions of the Code. Each Trust unitholder should consult his own tax advisor with respect to his particular circumstances. Classification and Taxation of the Trust Tax counsel to the Trust advised the Trust at the time of formation that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, in its opinion, the Trust would be treated as a grantor trust and not as an unincorporated business entity. No ruling has been or will be requested from the IRS or another taxing authority. The remainder of the discussion below is based on tax counsel opinion, at the time of formation, that the Trust will be classified as a grantor trust for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a grantor trust, the Trust is not subject to U.S. federal income tax at the Trust level. Rather, each Trust unitholder is considered for federal income tax purposes to own its proportionate share of the Trust assets directly as though no Trust were in existence. The income of the Trust is deemed to be 11 Table of Contents received or accrued by the Trust unitholder at the time such income is received or accrued by the Trust, rather than when distributed by the Trust. Each Trust unitholder is subject to tax on its proportionate share of the income and gain attributable to the assets of the Trust and is entitled to claim its proportionate share of the deductions and expenses attributable to the assets of the Trust, subject to applicable limitations, in accordance with the Trust unitholder tax method of accounting and taxable year without regard to the taxable year or accounting method employed by the Trust. The Trust will file annual information returns, reporting to the Trust unitholders all Item of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit. The Trust will allocate these Item of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit to Trust unitholders based on record ownership on the monthly record dates. It is possible that the IRS or another taxing authority could disagree with this allocation method and could assert that income and deductions of the Trust should be determined and allocated on a daily or prorated basis, which could require adjustments to the tax returns of the unitholders affected by this issue and result in an increase in the administrative expense of the Trust in subsequent periods. Classification of the Net Profits Interests and the Royalty Interest For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Net Profits Interests attributable to the Developed Properties (the Developed NPI ), Remaining Properties (the Remaining NPI ) and the Royalty Interest will have the tax characteristics of a mineral royalty interest to the extent, at the time of its creation, such Developed NPI, Remaining NPI or Royalty Interest is reasonably expected to have an economic life that corresponds substantially to the economic life of the mineral property or properties burdened thereby. Payments out of production that are received in respect of a mineral interest that constitutes a royalty interest for U.S. federal income tax purposes are taxable under current law as ordinary income subject to an allowance for cost or percentage depletion in respect of such income. Based on the reserve report and representations made by PCEC regarding the expected economic life of the Underlying Properties and the expected duration of the Conveyed Interests, tax counsel to the Trust advised the Trust at the time of formation that the Developed NPI will and the Remaining NPI and the Royalty Interest should be treated as continuing, non operating economic interests in the nature of royalties payable out of production from the mineral interests they burden. Consistent with the foregoing, PCEC and the Trust intend to treat the Conveyed Interests as mineral royalty interests for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The remainder of this discussion assumes that the Conveyed Interests are treated as mineral royalty interests. No assurance can be given that the IRS will not assert that any such interest should be treated differently. Any such different treatment could affect the amount, timing and character of income, gain or loss in respect of an investment in Trust Units. Reporting Requirements for Widely Held Fixed Investment Trusts The Trustee assumes that some Trust Units are held by middlemen, as such term is broadly defined in the Treasury regulations (and includes custodians, nominees, certain joint owners and brokers holding an interest for a custodian street name, collectively referred to herein as middlemen ). Therefore, the Trustee considers the Trust to be a non mortgage widely held fixed investment trust ( WHFIT ) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., 601 Travis Street, 16th Floor, Houston, Texas 77002, teleph1 number 1 512 236 6555, is the representative of the Trust that will provide the tax information in accordance with applicable Treasury regulations governing the information reporting requirements of the Trust as a WHFIT. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the middlemen holding Trust Units on behalf of unitholders, and not the Trustee of the Trust, are solely responsible for complying with the information reporting requirements under the Treasury regulations with respect to such Trust Units, including the issuance of IRS Forms 1099 and certain written tax statements. Unitholders whose Trust Units are held by middlemen should consult with such middlemen regarding the information that will be reported to them by the middlemen with respect to the Trust Units. Any generic tax information provided by the Trustee of the Trust is intended to be used only to assist Trust unitholders in the preparation of their federal and state income tax returns. Available Trust Tax Information and U.S. Federal Income Tax Rates In compliance with the Treasury regulations reporting requirements for non mortgage widely held fixed investment trusts and the dissemination of Trust tax reporting information, the Trustee provides a generic tax information reporting booklet which is intended to be used only to assist Trust unitholders in the preparation of their 2018 federal and state income tax returns. This tax information booklet can be obtained at www.pacificcoastoiltrust.com. The highest marginal U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to ordinary income is 37% for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, and the highest marginal U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to long term capital gains (generally, gains from the sale or exchange of certain investment assets held for more than 1 year) and qualified dividends of individuals is 20%. The highest marginal U.S. federal income tax rate 12 Table of Contents applicable to corporations is 21% for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, and such rate applies to both ordinary income and capital gains. Section 1411 of the Code imposes a 38% Medicare tax on certain investment income earned by individuals, estates, and trusts for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012 For these purposes, investment income generally will include a unitholder allocable share of the trust interest and royalty income plus the gain recognized from a sale of Trust Units. In the case of an individual, the tax is imposed on the lesser of (i) the individual net investment income from all investments, or (ii) the amount by which the individual modified adjusted gross income exceeds specified threshold levels depending on such individual federal income tax filing status. In the case of an estate or trust, the tax is imposed on the lesser of (i) undistributed net investment income, or (ii) the excess adjusted gross income over the dollar amount at which the highest income tax bracket applicable to an estate or trust begins. California State Tax Matters At the time of the formation of the Trust, PCEC on behalf of the Trust obtained a 2 year waiver from the State of California of the requirement to withhold 7% of the amounts paid to the Trust that are attributable to the Conveyed Interests held by unitholders not qualifying for an exemption from withholding. PCEC on behalf of the Trust will use its commercially reasonable efforts to maintain such waiver, including by seeking a renewal of such waiver prior to its expiration under California law. The Trust has received a renewal of the waiver for the years 2018 and 2019. The Trust may not be able to obtain such a waiver in the future, in which case PCEC on behalf of the Trust would be required to withhold such amounts beginning with the distribution expected to be paid in January 2020. Environmental Matters and Regulation General. PCEC oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to stringent, comprehensive and complex federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations governing the release, discharge or emission of materials into the environment, the handling of hazardous substances or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose significant obligations on PCEC operations, including requirements to obtain permits or other approvals to conduct regulated activities; limit or prohibit drilling and production activities in sensitive areas, such as wetlands, streams, coastal regions or areas that may contain endangered or threatened species or their habitats; properly manage and dispose of waste and wastewater, and restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of materials that can be released into the environment in the performance of drilling and production activities; initiate investigatory and remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former or current operations, such as spills, restoration of drilling pits and plugging of aband1d wells; apply specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; minimize impacts to neighbors; and plug and abandon wells and restore properties upon which wells are drilled. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal sanctions, including m1tary penalties, the imposition of joint and several liability, investigatory and remedial obligations, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting some or all of PCEC operations. Moreover, these laws, rules and regulations may restrict the rate of oil and natural gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry may increase the cost of doing business in the industry and may consequently affect profitability. PCEC believes that it is in material compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to its current operations. However, the recent trend in environmental law and regulation has been to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. Since taking office, the Administration of President Trump has taken steps aimed at reducing regulatory burdens and costs for the oil and gas industry, at least at the federal level; nevertheless, changes in environmental laws and regulations or re interpretation of enforcement policies that result in more stringent and costly construction, drilling, water management, completion, emission or discharge limits or waste handling, disposal or remediation obligations could have a material adverse effect on PCEC development expenses, results of operations and financial position. Moreover, accidental releases or spills may occur in the course of PCEC operations, and PCEC could incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of such releases or spills, including any third 13 Table of Contents party claims for damage to property, natural resources or persons. It is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or other waste products in the environment. PCEC inability to obtain future discretionary permits could limit the future performance of the Conveyed Interests. The following is a summary of certain existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, each as amended from time to time, to which PCEC business operations are subject. Hazardous substances and waste handling. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ( CERCLA ) and comparable state laws impose liability without regard to fault or the legality of conduct on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. Under CERCLA, these responsible persons may include the current or past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and entities that transport, dispose of, or arrange for the transport or disposal of hazardous substances released at the site. These responsible persons may be subject to joint and several strict liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources, and for the costs of certain health studies. CERCLA also authorizes the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ) and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non hazardous wastes. The EPA has delegated authority to the individual states to administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, production and development of crude oil or natural gas are currently regulated under RCRA non hazardous waste provisions. However, it is possible that certain oil and natural gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. In accordance with a December 2016 settlement agreement, EPA agreed to decide by March 2019 whether to revise the EPA current determination exempting oil and gas wastes from regulation as hazardous wastes under RCRA. While the EPA has not taken any action toward changing the status of oil and gas wastes under RCRA, any such change could result in an increase in the costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the cash distributions to the Trust unitholders. PCEC may, from time to time generate hazardous waste that is subject to RCRA. Such wastes must be properly tested, characterized and disposed of according to state and federal regulations. The real properties upon which PCEC conducts its operations have been used for oil and natural gas exploration and production for many years. Although PCEC may have utilized operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes may have been disposed of or released at or from the real properties upon which PCEC conducts its operations, or at or from other, offsite locations, where these petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes have been taken for recycling or disposal. In addition, the real properties upon which PCEC conducts its operations may have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons was not under PCEC control. These real properties and the petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes disposed or released at or from these properties may give rise to liability for PCEC pursuant to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, PCEC could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes, to clean up contaminated property and to perform remedial operations such as restoration of pits and plugging of aband1d wells to prevent future contamination or to pay some or all of the costs of any such action. At the Orcutt Diatomite properties, the cyclic steam stimulation technique has the potential to stimulate the release of hydrocarbons from the separate, overlying outcrop formation. This outcrop formation at points is very shallow and reaches the surface at a number of locations. Historically, this has led to naturally occurring seeps onto the surface. A number of these seeps have occurred in the vicinity of PCEC Diatomite operations. PCEC regularly inspects this surface area for seeps, and notifies appropriate authorities when required. PCEC uses collection drains to contain and collect these hydrocarbons under agency supervision so that they do not escape into the environment. The small amounts of hydrocarbons collected from the seeps are gathered along with PCEC other production from its Orcutt properties. Water discharges. The Clean Water Act ( CWA ) and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the United States and waters of the state, respectively. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA and or an analogous state agency. The discharge of dredge and fill material in regulated waters, including wetlands, is also prohibited, unless authorized by a permit issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ( ACE ). CWA Section 401 provides that the applicant for an individual National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System ( NPDES ) permit to be issued by the EPA or an individual Section 404 permit to be issued by the ACE must notify the state in which the discharge will occur and provide 14 Table of Contents an opportunity for the state to determine if the discharge will comply with the state approved water quality program. In some instances this process could result in delay in issuance of the permit, more stringent permit requirements, or denial of the permit. In September 2015, new EPA and ACE rules defining the scope of the waters of the United States, and EPA and the ACE jurisdiction, became effective ( 2015 Rule ). The 2015 Rule has been challenged in multiple courts on the grounds that it unlawfully expands the reach of CWA programs. Due to the status of pending litigation, the 2015 Rule is currently in effect in 22 states, including California. In the remaining states, regulations in effect before promulgation of the 2015 Rule and guidance interpreting relevant United Sates Supreme Court rulings are in effect. On December 11, 2018, the heads of the EPA and ACE signed a proposed regulation that would revise the definition of waters of the United States to reduce its reach from the 2015 Rule ( 2018 Pre Proposal Rule ). The fates of the 2015 Rule and the 2018 Pre Proposal Rule and applicability of the rules during current and future litigation are uncertain; however, to the extent the 2015 Rule is in effect, it expands the scope of CWA jurisdiction, and PCEC could face increased costs and delays with respect to obtaining permits for dredge and fill activities in wetland areas or other waters of the United States. The Clean Water Act also imposes spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements, including requirements for appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters of the United States in the event of a hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws and regulations. In addition, the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws required individual permits or coverage under general permits for discharges of storm water runoff from certain types of facilities. The primary federal law for oil spill liability is the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as amended ( OPA ), which establishes a variety of requirements pertaining to oil spill prevention, containment and cleanup. OPA applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the United States. Under the OPA, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, are required to develop and implement plans for preventing and responding to oil spills and, if a spill occurs, may be subject to oil cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from the spill. Effective as of September 2015, comparable California regulations require spill contingency plans for inland oil and gas facilities. In addition, naturally occurring radioactive material ( NORM ) is at times brought to the surface in connection with oil and natural gas production. Concerns have arisen over traditional NORM disposal practices (including discharge through publicly owned treatment works into surface waters), which may increase the costs associated with management of NORM. Underground injection control ( UIC ) . The Safe Drinking Water Act ( SDWA ) and comparable state laws regulate the construction, operation, permitting and closure of injection wells that place fluids underground for storage or disposal. Under the SDWA UIC Program, producers must obtain federal or state Class II injection well permits and routinely monitor and report fluid volumes, pressures and chemistry, and conduct mechanical integrity tests on injection wells. While in some states the EPA itself implements the UIC Program for Class II wells, which are used to inject brines and other fluids associated with oil and gas production, other states such as California have been delegated primary enforcement authority with respect to the regulation of Class II wells. In response to recent seismic events near underground injection wells used for the disposal of oil and gas related wastewater, federal and some state agencies have begun investigating whether such wells have caused increased seismic activity, and some states have shut down or imposed moratoria on the use of such injection wells. As a result of these concerns, regulators in some states are considering additional requirements related to seismic safety. In addition, in July 2014, the EPA sent a letter to the California Environmental Protection Agency and California Natural Resources Agency describing serious deficiencies in the state UIC Program and setting forth comprehensive requirements and deadlines for bringing the program into compliance with federal regulations by February 2017. In its letter, the EPA mandated an in depth review of all existing Class II wells in California that may be injecting into non exempt aquifers as well as a review of the state aquifer exemption process. In addition, the EPA directed the state to prohibit new and existing injections into aquifers that have not been approved as exempt by the EPA by February 15, 2017. The state responded by promising to comply with the EPA directives through a combination of rulemaking and administrative orders. The California Department of Conservation, Division of Oil of Oil, Gas, and Geothermal Resources ( DOGGR ) has worked with the EPA and the California State Water Board to develop a corrective action plan with specific deadlines for ending Class II injection into non exempt aquifers. The EPA enhanced oversight of the California Class II injection well program is ongoing. The aquifers that PCEC injects into have all been tested and have over 10,000 milligrams per liter total dissolved solids, making the aquifers exempt and allowable for injection. The data has been submitted and accepted by the DOGGR. Air emissions. The federal Clean Air Act ( CAA ), and comparable state laws, regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. In addition, the EPA has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of air pollutants at specified sources. For example, in 2012 the EPA 15 Table of Contents adopted federal New Source Performance Standards ( NSPS ) that require the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from certain fractured and refractured natural gas wells for which well completion operations are conducted and futher require that most wells use reduced emission completions, also known as green completions . These regulations also establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from production related wet seal and reciprocating compressors, and from pneumatic controllers and storage vessels. In June 2016, the EPA published a final rule adopting additional NSPS requirements for new, modified, or reconstructed oil and gas facilities that require control of greenhouse gas methane from affected facilities, including requirements to find and repair fugitive leaks of methane emissions at well sites ( Methane Rule ). Following the 2016 presidential election and change in administrations, in 2017 the EPA proposed to delay implementation of the Methane Rule and also convened a reconsideration proceeding that resulted in 2 2018 rulemaking projects aimed at rolling back certain Methane Rule requirements. These actions like the Methane Rule itself, have been (or are likely to be) challenged in courts. The ultimate fate of the Methane Rule requirements is unclear. Nevertheless, regulations promulgated under the CAA may require PCEC to incur development expenses to install and utilize specific equipment, technologies, or work practices to control emissions from its operations. The EPA also is charged with establishing ambient air quality standards, the implementation of which can indirectly impact PCEC operationsn. For example, in October 2015, the EPA lowered the National Ambient Air Quality Standard ( NAAQS ), for oz1 from 75 to 70 parts per billion. A number of state and industry petiti1rs filed suit in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, challenging the 2015 oz1 NAAQS. The outcome of the litigation challenging the standard is unknown at this time. State implementation of the revised NAAQS could result in stricter permitting requirements, delay or prohibit PCEC ability to obtain such permits, and result in increased expenditures for pollution control equipment, the costs of which could be significant. Compliance with these rules or standards promulgated under the CAA could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact PCEC business. States can impose air emissions limitations that are more stringent than the federal standards imposed by the EPA, and California air quality laws and regulations are in many instances more stringent than comparable federal laws and regulations. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non compliance with air permits or other requirements of the CAA and associated state laws and regulations. Regulatory requirements relating to air emissions are particularly stringent in Southern California and Santa Barbara County. Climate change . In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has issued regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the CAA. These regulations include limits on tailpipe emissions from motor vehicles, preconstruction and operating permit requirements for certain large stationary sources, and methane emissions standards for certain new, modified and reconstructed oil and gas sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, as well as certain onshore oil and natural gas production facilities, on an annual basis. In December 2015, the EPA finalized rules that added new sources to the scope of greenhouse gases monitoring and reporting rule. These new sources include gathering and boosting facilities. The revisions also include the addition of well identification reporting requirements for certain facilities. In addition, as described above, in June 2016 the EPA published a final rule that requires operators to reduce methane emissions from certain new, modified or reconstructed oil and gas facilities, including production, processing, transmission and storage activities ( Methane Rule ). However, following the November 2016 presidential election and change in administrations, in 2017 the EPA proposed to delay implementation of the Methane Rule, and also convened a reconsideration proceeding that resulted in 2 2018 rulemaking projects aimed at rolling back certain Methane Rule requirements. These actions, like the Methane Rule itself, have been (or are likely to be) challenged in courts. While the ultimate fate of the Methane Rule is unclear, it may require PCEC to incur development expenses to install and utilize specific equipment, technologies, or work practices to control methane emissions from its operations. In addition, from time to time Congress has considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and many states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases primarily through the implementation of state and or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal. California has been 1 of the leading states in adopting greenhouse gas emission reduction requirements and has implemented a cap and trade program as well as mandates for renewable fuels sources. California cap and trade program requires PCEC to report greenhouse gas emissions and essentially sets maximum limits or caps on total emissions of greenhouse gases from all industrial sectors that are or become subject to the program. This includes the oil and natural gas extraction sector of which PCEC is a part. PCEC main sources of greenhouse gas emissions for its oil and gas operations are primarily attributable to emissions from 16 Table of Contents internal combustion engines powering wells, emissions from drilling rigs and the steam generators that are used to produce steam for cyclic steaming. In June 2017, California passed AB 398, legislation extending the cap and trade program from its previous set termination of 2020 to 2030. The program will continue largely unchanged, and PCEC will continue to be required to obtain authorizations for each metric ton of greenhouses emitted, either in the form of allowances (each the equivalent of 1 ton of carbon dioxide) or qualifying offset credits. A portion of the allowance will be granted by California, but any shortfall between the state granted allowance and the facility emissions will have to be addressed through the purchase of additional allowances either from the state or a third party. The availability of allowances will decline over time in accordance with the declining cap, and the cost to acquire such allowances may increase over time. These regulations increase PCEC costs for those operations and adversely affect its operating results and the amount of net profits it pays to the Trust. PCEC is in compliance with California program. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require PCEC to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances, or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements, or they could promote the use of alternative fuels and thereby decrease demand for the oil and gas PCEC produces. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas produced. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on PCEC business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. Such climatic events could have an adverse effect on PCEC financial condition and results of operations. National Environmental Policy Act and California Environmental Quality Act. Oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activities on federal lands are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act, as amended ( NEPA ). Some of PCEC production, most notably from the Sawtelle property, is located on federally administered land and therefore permits or authorizations issued for this field may be subject to NEPA. NEPA requires federal agencies, including the Department of the Interior, to evaluate major agency actions with the potential to significantly impact the environment, including issuance by the ACE of an individual CWA Section 404 permit. In the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an Environmental Assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed Environmental Impact Statement that may be made available for public review and comment. This process has the potential to delay, limit or increase the cost of developing oil and natural gas projects. Authorizations under NEPA are also subject to protest, appeal or litigation, any or all of which may delay or halt projects. The California Environmental Quality Act ( CEQA ) imposes similar requirements on California state and local agencies to review environmental impacts from their proposed approvals and to develop and impose mitigation measures appropriate to reduce such impacts to insignificance where feasible. All of the Underlying Properties are located in California and are therefore subject to CEQA to the extent discretionary permits or approvals are required from California state or local agencies. In particular, any future plans by PCEC to increase production in the Orcutt Diatomite beyond the currently permitted wells will require additional permits and approvals from various state, federal and local agencies, in addition to a new review under CEQA, including an environmental impact report. Such a process could take many months or longer, and there can be no assurance that such permits would be granted or timely obtained or on terms and conditions consistent with a PCEC proposed plan. Endangered Species Act. The federal Endangered Species Act ( ESA ) and similar state statutes restrict activities that may affect endangered and threatened species or their habitats. The presence of endangered species or designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species could cause PCEC to incur additional costs or become subject to operating delays, restrictions or bans in the affected areas, including the obligation to obtain permits from the United States Fish & Wildlife Service ( FWS ) or the California Department of Fish & Wildlife with respect to 1 or more such species. The habitats of certain protected species are known to include portions of PCEC areas of operation, and others may yet be found or proposed for protection at 1 or more of the Underlying Properties. OSHA and other laws and regulations. The operations of PCEC are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act ( OSHA ) and comparable state statutes, whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard, the OSHA Process Safety Management, the EPA community right to know regulations under Title III of CERCLA and comparable state statutes require that information be maintained concerning hazardous materials used or produced in operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. Accidental spills or releases may occur in the course of operations, and PCEC may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of such spills or releases, including those relating to claims for damage to property and persons. In addition, PCEC is likely to incur remediation costs for property, wells and facilities at the end of their useful lives. Moreover, the passage of more stringent laws 17 Table of Contents or regulations in the future may have a negative impact on PCEC business, financial condition and results of operations, or its ability to make distributions to the Trust. Idle Wells. In September 2016, California passed AB 2729 with a stated intended purpose to reduce the state inventory of idle wells and to ensure protection of public health and the environment. The bill is administered by DOGGR and beginning January 1, 2018, all operators must either (i) submit an idle well management plan ( IWMP ) for the management and elimination of all long term idle wells or (ii) pay annual fees for each idle well by January 31 of each year. Required elimination of idle wells is based on the number of idle wells an operator has. For 2019, PCEC will be required to eliminate 2 more wells if an IWMP is submitted, otherwise fees will be due. Beginning in April 2019, DOGGR is expected to implement new regulations that would require PCEC to undertake certain actions with respect to idle wells. These regulations are expected to require each idle well, within six years and every four to eight years thereafter, to pass a casing integrity pressure test ( CIPT ) to prove its mechanical integrity, which would involve placing a workover rig on the well to pressure test the casing. In addition, to ensure that each idle well remains in a condition conducive to its eventual abandonment, if necessary, DOGGR is expected to require operators to clean out or tag each idle well, within eight years and then every four years thereafter, to verify access for future abandonment. Finally, operators will be required to submit an engineering analysis for each idle well that provides satisfactory evidence that the well is viable to be returned to production and has mechanical integrity. If DOGGR determines that a well is not viable to return to production, the well must be aband1d within a specified timeframe. Because PCEC has not previously performed a CIPT and has not previously cleaned out or tagged idle wells to verify access for future abandonment, PCEC is unable to estimate how many of its idle wells will be in compliance with the CIPT or with the rules regarding cleaning out or tagging.If a well fails the CIPT or is unable to be cleaned out or tagged, DOGGR will require remedial action in the form of abandonment or repair. PCEC estimates that there are currently 116 idle wells on the Underlying Properties. Where You Can Find Other Information The Trust makes certain filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ), including its annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and all amendments and exhibits to those reports, available free of charge through its website, www.pacificcoastoiltrust.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after the date they are filed with,or furnished to, the SEC. These filings are also available through the SEC website, www.sec.gov. The Trust press releases and any recent investor presentations made by PCEC are also available on the Trust website. 18 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. Prices of oil and natural gas fluctuate, and changes in prices could reduce proceeds to the Trust and cash distributions to Trust unitholders. The Trust reserves and monthly cash distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of oil and natural gas. Prices of oil and natural gas can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust and PCEC. These factors include, among others regional, domestic and foreign supply and perceptions of supply of oil and natural gas; the level of demand and perceptions of demand for oil and natural gas; political conditions or hostilities in oil and natural gas producing countries; anticipated future prices of oil and natural gas and other commodities; weather conditions and seasonal trends; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; U.S. and worldwide economic conditions; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities; the volatility and uncertainty of regional pricing differentials; governmental regulations and taxation; energy conservation and environmental measures; the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including by commodity price speculators; and acts of force majeure. In 2018, Brent oil prices ranged from $50.57 per Bbl to $86.07 per Bbl. In 2017, Brent oil prices ranged from $4398 per Bbl to $66.80 per Bbl. In 2018, Henry Hub natural gas prices ranged from $249 per MMBtu to $6.24 per MMBtu. In 2017, Henry Hub natural gas prices ranged from $244 per MMBtu to $380 per MMBtu. Profits to which the Trust is entitled are especially sensitive to oil prices, because oil is a high percentage of production from the Underlying Properties. In 2018, oil represented 99% of production from the Underlying Properties. Lower average realized prices have affected the Trust cash distributions to unitholders. For example, for the periods from February 2016 through February 2017, no cash distributions were made as Trust expenses exceeded the proceeds received from the Conveyed Interests. Changes in the prices of oil and natural gas may reduce profits to which the Trust is entitled and may ultimately reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that is economic to produce from the Underlying Properties. As a result, PCEC or any third party operator could determine during periods of low commodity prices to shut in or curtail production from wells on the Underlying Properties. In addition, PCEC or any third party operator could determine during periods of low commodity prices to plug and abandon marginal wells that otherwise may have been allowed to continue to produce for a longer period under conditions of higher prices. Specifically, PCEC or any third party operator may abandon any well or property if it reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce oil or natural gas in commercially paying quantities. This could result in termination of any Conveyed Interest relating to the aband1d well or property. In addition, the costs of plugging and abandonment of wells or property, including costs that PCEC, in its sole discretion, may accrue for future plugging and abandonment, would be deducted from gross profits attributable to the Trust interest and therefore would reduce future cash distributions to Trust unitholders. The Underlying Properties are sensitive to decreasing commodity prices. The commodity price sensitivity is due to a variety of factors that vary from well to well, including the costs associated with water handling and disposal, chemicals, surface equipment 19 Table of Contents maintenance, downhole casing repairs and reservoir pressure maintenance activities that are necessary to maintain production. As a result, a decrease in commodity prices may cause the expenses of certain wells to exceed the well revenue. If this scenario were to occur, PCEC or any third party operator may decide to shut in the well or plug and abandon the well. This scenario could reduce future cash distributions to Trust unitholders. In addition, PCEC is also sensitive to increasing natural gas prices at its Orcutt properties, where it consumes natural gas in connection with its production of oil. Accordingly, at times when PCEC is a net buyer of natural gas, increases in the price of natural gas may reduce proceeds from production from PCEC Orcutt Diatomite properties and could reduce future cash distributions to Trust unitholders. Actual reserves and future production may be less than engineers estimates, which could reduce cash distributions by the Trust and the value of the Trust Units. The value of the Trust Units and the amount of future cash distributions to the Trust unitholders depends upon, among other things, the accuracy of the reserves and future production estimated to be attributable to the Trust interest in the Underlying Properties as summarized in the reports the Trust obtains from its independent petroleum engineers. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil and natural gas in an exact way, and estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. Ultimately, actual production and revenues for the Underlying Properties could vary both positively and negatively and in material amounts from estimates. Furthermore, direct operating expenses and development expenses relating to the Underlying Properties could be substantially higher than current estimates. Petroleum engineers are required to make subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas based on factors and assumptions that include historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas; oil and natural gas prices, production levels, Btu content, production expenses, transportation costs, severance and excise taxes and development expenses; and the assumed effect of expected governmental regulation and future tax rates. Changes in these assumptions and amounts of actual direct operating expenses and development expenses could materially decrease reserve estimates. In addition, the quantities of recovered reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties may decrease in the future as a result of future decreases in the price of oil or natural gas. Developing oil and natural gas wells and producing oil and natural gas are costly and high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect future production from the Underlying Properties. For example, the ultimate development of future production will require additional permits. Any delays, reductions, lack of permits or cancellations in development and producing activities could decrease revenues that are available for distribution to Trust unitholders. The process of developing oil and natural gas wells and producing oil and natural gas on the Underlying Properties is subject to numerous risks beyond the Trust or PCEC control, including risks that could delay PCEC or other third party operators current drilling or production schedule and the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. PCEC is not obligated to undertake any development activities. As a result, any drilling or completion activities will be subject to the reasonable discretion of PCEC. Any plans to increase production in the Orcutt Diatomite and West Pico properties beyond the currently permitted wells will require additional permits and approvals from various state and local agencies. Such permits may not be issued in a timely manner or at all. Additionally, the ability of PCEC or any third party operator to carry out operations or to finance planned development expenses could be materially and adversely affected by any factor that may curtail, delay, reduce or cancel development and production, including delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements, including permitting; unusual or unexpected geological formations; shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities; lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines; equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; 20 Table of Contents reductions in oil or natural gas prices; market limitations for oil or natural gas; pipe or cement failures; casing collapses; lost or damaged drilling and service tools; loss of drilling fluid circulation; uncontrollable flows of oil and natural gas, insert gas, water or drilling fluids; fires and natural disasters; environmental hazards, such as oil and natural gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; adverse weather conditions; and oil or natural gas property title problems. If planned operations, including drilling of development wells, are delayed or cancelled, or if production from existing wells or development wells is lower than anticipated due to 1 or more of the factors above or for any other reason, distributions to Trust unitholders may be reduced. Further, if PCEC or any third party operator incurs increased costs due to 1 or more of the above factors or for any other reason and is not able to recover such costs from insurance, distributions to Trust unitholders may be reduced. The Trust is passive in nature and neither the Trust nor the Trust unitholders have any ability to influence PCEC or control the operations or development of the Underlying Properties. The Trust Units are a passive investment that entitle the Trust unitholder only to receive cash distributions from the Conveyed Interests. Trust unitholders have no voting rights with respect to PCEC and, therefore, have no managerial, contractual or other ability to influence PCEC activities or the operations of the Underlying Properties. PCEC operated approximately 98% of the average daily production from the Underlying Properties located at Orcutt and West Pico for the year ended December 31, 2018 and is generally responsible for making all decisions relating to drilling activities, sale of production, compliance with regulatory requirements and other matters that affect such properties. Accordingly, PCEC may take actions that are in its own interest that may be different from the interests of the Trust. Shortages of equipment, services and qualified personnel could increase costs of developing and operating the Underlying Properties and result in a reduction in the amount of cash available for distribution to the Trust unitholders. The demand for qualified and experienced personnel to conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling rigs and other equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. Shortages of field personnel and equipment or price increases could hinder the ability of PCEC or any third party operator to conduct the operations which it currently has planned for the Underlying Properties, which would reduce the amount of cash received by the Trust and available for distribution to the Trust unitholders. PCEC may transfer all or a portion of the Underlying Properties at any time without Trust unitholder consent. PCEC may at any time transfer all or part of the Underlying Properties, subject to and burdened by the applicable Conveyed Interests, and may abandon individual wells or properties reasonably believed to be uneconomic. Trust unitholders are not entitled to vote on any transfer or abandonment of the Underlying Properties, and the Trust will not receive any profits from any such transfer. Following any sale or transfer of any of the Underlying Properties, the applicable Net Profits Interest and if applicable, the Royalty Interest, will continue to burden the transferred property, and net profits and royalties attributable to such transferred property will be calculated for such transferred property on a standal1 basis using the computation of net profits and royalties set forth in the Conveyance related to the Conveyed Interests. PCEC may delegate to the transferee responsibility for all of PCEC obligations relating to the applicable Conveyed Interests on the portion of the Underlying Properties transferred. 21 Table of Contents PCEC may, without the consent of the Trust unitholders, require the Trust to release the Conveyed Interests associated with any property that accounts for less than or equal to 0.25% of the total production from the Underlying Properties in the prior twelve months and provided that the Conveyed Interests covered by such releases cannot exceed, during any twelve month period, an aggregate fair market value to the Trust of $500,000. These releases will be made only in connection with a sale by PCEC of the relevant Underlying Properties and are conditi1d upon an amount equal to the fair market value (net of sales costs) of such Conveyed Interests being treated as an offset amount against costs and expenses. PCEC may enter into farm out, operating, participation and other similar agreements to develop the property without the consent or approval of the Trustee or any Trust unitholder. The reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties are depleting assets and production from those reserves will diminish over time. Furthermore, the Trust is precluded from acquiring other oil and natural gas properties, net profits interests or royalty interests to replace the depleting assets and production. Therefore, proceeds to the Trust and cash distributions to Trust unitholders will decrease over time. The net profits and royalties payable to the Trust attributable to the Conveyed Interests are derived from the sale of production of oil and natural gas from the Underlying Properties. The reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties are depleting assets, which means that the reserves and the quantity of oil and natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties will decline over time. Future maintenance projects on the Underlying Properties may affect the quantity of proved reserves that can be economically produced from wells on the Underlying Properties. The timing and size of these projects will depend on, among other factors, the market prices of oil and natural gas. Furthermore, with respect to properties for which PCEC is not designated as the operator, PCEC has limited control over the timing or amount of those development expenses. PCEC also has the right to non consent and not participate in the development expenses on properties for which it is not the operator, in which case PCEC and the Trust will not receive the production resulting from such development expenses until after payout occurs pursuant to the applicable joint operating agreements. If PCEC or any third party operator does not implement maintenance projects when warranted, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by PCEC or estimated in the reserve reports. The Trust Agreement provides that the Trust activities are limited to owning the Conveyed Interests and any activity reasonably related to such ownership, including activities required or permitted by the terms of the Conveyance related to the Conveyed Interests. As a result, the Trust is not permitted to acquire other oil and natural gas properties, net profits interests or royalties to replace the depleting assets and production attributable to the Conveyed Interests. Because the net profits and royalties payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets, the portion of the distributions to Trust unitholders attributable to depletion may be considered to have the effect of a return of capital as opposed to a return on investment. Eventually, the Underlying Properties burdened by the Conveyed Interests may cease to produce in commercially paying quantities, and the Trust may, therefore, cease to receive any distributions of net profits and royalties therefrom. A change in oil price differentials may adversely affect the cash distributions available to Trust unitholders. PCEC oil production is sold in the local markets where the pricing is based on local or regional supply and demand factors. The difference between the benchmark price and the price PCEC receives is called a differential. PCEC cannot predict how the differential applicable to its production will change in the future, and it is possible that the differentials will change and the prices received for PCEC oil production may decrease. Numerous factors may influence local pricing, such as refinery capacity, pipeline capacity and specifications, upsets in the midstream or downstream sectors of the industry, trade restrictions and governmental regulations. Changes in the differential between common benchmark prices for oil and the wellhead price PCEC receives could adversely affect the cash distributions available to Trust unitholders. The amount of cash available for distribution by the Trust is reduced by the amount of any costs and expenses related to the Underlying Properties and other costs and expenses incurred by the Trust. The Trust indirectly bears an 80% share of all costs and expenses related to the production from the Developed Properties and a 25% share of all costs and expenses related to the production from the Remaining Properties. These costs and expenses include direct operating expenses and development expenses, which reduce the amount of cash received by the Trust and thereafter distributable to Trust unitholders. Accordingly, higher costs and expenses related to the Underlying Properties will directly decrease the amount of cash received by the Trust in respect of a Net Profits Interest. Historical costs may not be indicative of future costs. For example, PCEC may in the future propose additional drilling projects that significantly increase the capital expenditures associated with the Underlying Properties, which could reduce cash available for distribution by the Trust. In addition, cash available for 22 Table of Contents distribution by the Trust is further reduced by the Trust general and administrative expenses and by the annual PCEC operating and services fee, which is currently $11 million, and is adjusted each April 1 based on changes in the Consumer Price Index. Net profits payable to the Trust depend upon production quantities, sales prices of oil and natural gas and costs to develop and produce the oil and natural gas. Royalty Interest Proceeds depend on the Trust share of production and property taxes and post production costs, if any. If at any time cumulative costs for the Developed Properties or the Remaining Properties exceed cumulative gross proceeds associated with such properties, neither the Trust nor the Trust unitholders would be liable for the excess costs, but the Trust would not receive any net profits from the Developed Properties or the Remaining Properties, as the case may be, until cumulative gross proceeds for such properties exceed the cumulative total excess costs for such properties. The Trust has established a cash reserve for contingent liabilities and to pay expenses in accordance with the Trust Agreement, which would reduce net profits payable to the Trust and distributions to Trust unitholders. The Trust source of capital is the net profits and royalty income received from its share of the net proceeds from the Conveyed Interests. Pursuant to the Trust Agreement, the Trust may establish a cash reserve through the withholding of cash for contingent liabilities and to pay expenses, which will reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to unitholders. In December 2018, the Trustee announced that commencing with the distribution to unitholders payable in the first month of 2019, the Trustee intends to withhold the greater of $10,000 or 35% of the funds otherwise available for distribution each month to gradually build a cash reserve of approximately $350,000. Accordingly, in February 2019, the Trustee withheld approximately $17,000 from the funds otherwise available for distribution. The Trustee may increase or decrease the targeted amount at any time, and may increase or decrease the rate at which it is withholding funds to build the cash reserve at any time, without advance notice to the unitholders. The bankruptcy of PCEC or any third party operator could impede the operation of wells and the development of proved undeveloped reserves. The value of the Conveyed Interests and the Trust ultimate cash available for distribution is highly dependent on PCEC financial condition. Neither PCEC nor any of the other operators of the Underlying Properties has agreed with the Trust to maintain a certain net worth or to be restricted by other similar covenants. The ability to develop and operate the Underlying Properties depends on PCEC future financial condition and economic performance and access to capital, which in turn will depend upon the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of PCEC. PCEC is not a reporting company and is not required to file periodic reports with the SEC pursuant to the Exchange Act. Therefore, neither the Trust unitholders nor the Trustee have access to financial information about PCEC. For its fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, PCEC had $0.9 million of cash on its balance sheet and zero debt. PCEC has access to a credit facility with a maturity of December 31, 2019. If PCEC has borrowings on its credit facility at December 31, 2019, or otherwise has indebtedness or other liabilities or obligations and is unable to extend the maturity of its credit facility or access alternative capital sources, PCEC may file for bankruptcy. PCEC has open commodity derivative contracts with its credit facility lender, and if PCEC credit facility is not extended, under the terms of the commodity derivative contract agreements, PCEC credit facility lender is able to force a liquidation of the commodity derivative contracts. In the event of the bankruptcy of PCEC or any third party operator of the Underlying Properties, the working interest owners in the affected properties, creditors or the debtor in possession could have to seek a new party to perform the development and the operations of the affected wells. PCEC or the other working interest owners may not be able to find a replacement driller or operator, and they may not be able to enter into a new agreement with such replacement party on favorable terms within a reasonable period of time. As a result, such a bankruptcy may result in reduced production of reserves and decreased distributions to Trust unitholders. On May 15, 2016, Breitburn Energy Partners LP and affiliated debtors, including Breitburn Operating LP (collectively, Breitburn ), filed a voluntary petition for relief under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Breitburn is the operator for the East Coyote and Sawtelle properties and continued to operate these properties during its bankruptcy proceedings. On April 6, 2018, Maverick Natural Resources LLC ( Maverick ) announced that it had emerged from the bankruptcy proceedings as the successor to Breitburn. Breitburn Operating LP, a wholly owned subsidiary of Maverick, continues to be the operator of East Coyote and Sawtelle. In the event of the bankruptcy of PCEC, if a court were to hold that the Net Profits Interests are part of the bankruptcy estate, the Trust may be treated as an unsecured creditor with respect to the Net Profits Interests. PCEC and the Trust believe that the Net Profits Interests would be treated as an interest in real property under the laws of the State of California. While no California case has defined the nature of a net profits interest, the California Supreme Court has held 23 Table of Contents that an overriding royalty interest in an oil and natural gas lease (such as the Royalty Interest) is an interest in real property. The California Supreme Court has also explained that the nature of the interest created depends upon the intention of the parties involved. Given that the Conveyance defines the Net Profits Interests as an overriding royalty interest payable on the basis of net profits and states that the parties expressly intend that the Net Profits Interests constitute, for all purposes, an interest in real property, a California court likely would hold that the Net Profits Interests are an interest in real property. Nevertheless, the outcome is uncertain because no dispositive California Supreme Court case directly concludes that a conveyance of a net profits interest constitutes the conveyance of a real property interest. As such, in a bankruptcy of PCEC, the Net Profits Interests might be considered an asset of the bankruptcy estate and used to satisfy obligations to creditors of PCEC, in which case the Trust would be an unsecured creditor of PCEC at risk of losing the entire value of the Net Profits Interests to senior creditors. The generation of profits and royalties for distribution by the Trust depends in part on access to and operation of gathering, transportation and processing facilities. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities could interfere with sales of oil and natural gas production from the Underlying Properties. The marketability of PCEC oil and natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering, transportation and processing facilities owned by third parties. In general, PCEC does not control these third party facilities and its access to them may be limited or denied due to circumstances beyond its control. A significant disruption in the availability of these facilities could adversely affect PCEC ability to deliver to market the oil and natural gas it produces and thereby cause a significant interruption in PCEC operations. In some cases, PCEC ability to deliver to market its oil and natural gas is dependent upon coordination among third parties who own the transportation and processing facilities it uses, and any inability or unwillingness of those parties to coordinate efficiently could also interrupt PCEC operations. These are risks for which PCEC generally does not maintain insurance. The Trust does not maintain any type of insurance against any of these risks. The facilities at PCEC West Pico, East Coyote and Sawtelle properties are located in urban settings. The available means for alternative transportation of production from these properties are limited, due to the difficulties of building transportation systems in these areas as well as permitting restrictions pertaining to trucking. In addition, PCEC Orcutt properties are currently serviced by a single gathering system, and there are a limited number of other transportation alternatives in the area. A change in PCEC current takeaway arrangements, in the absence of satisfactory alternatives, would have an adverse effect on PCEC operations. PCEC would be similarly affected if any of the other transportation, gathering and processing facilities it uses became unavailable or unable to provide services. Phillips 66 purchases virtually all of PCEC production, and a decision by Phillips 66 to discontinue or reduce its purchases of PCEC production may adversely affect the cash distributions available to Trust unitholders. In 2018, Phillips 66 accounted for 88% of PCEC net sales. As a result, a decision by Phillips 66 to discontinue or reduce its purchases of PCEC production may adversely affect the cash distributions available to Trust unitholders. The Trustee must sell the Conveyed Interests and dissolve the Trust prior to the expected termination of the Trust if the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Trust Units approve the sale or vote to dissolve the Trust or if the annual cash proceeds received by the Trust attributable to the Conveyed Interests, in the aggregate, are less than $20 million for each of any 2 consecutive years. As a result, Trust unitholders may not recover their investment. The Trustee must sell the Conveyed Interests and dissolve the Trust if the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding Trust Units approve the sale or vote to dissolve the Trust. The Trustee must also sell the Conveyed Interests and dissolve the Trust if the annual cash proceeds received by the Trust attributable to the Conveyed Interests, in the aggregate, are less than $20 million for each of any 2 consecutive years. If this occurs, the Trust Agreement requires the Trustee to sell the Conveyed Interests and to distribute the net proceeds to the Trust unitholders after paying all liabilities of the Trust and setting up cash reserves in such amounts as the Trustee in its discretion deems appropriate for contingent liabilities. As a result, Trust unitholders may not recover their investment. Current regulations and recent regulatory changes in California have and may continue to adversely affect PCEC production in its Diatomite properties. Recent regulatory changes in California have adversely affected PCEC Diatomite production. For instance, in 2010, Diatomite production decreased significantly due to the inability to drill new wells pending the receipt of permits from the California Department of Conservation, Division of Oil, Gas, and Geothermal Resources, or DOGGR. The current approval, among other things, includes stringent operating, response and preventative requirements relating to mechanical integrity testing and responses to integrity issues and surface expressions, among others. Compliance with these requirements and delays in regulatory reviews, as well 24 Table of Contents as other regulatory action and inaction, has in the past and may in the future adversely affect the pace of drilling and steam injection and may adversely affect development from PCEC Diatomite properties in the near term. PCEC previously had submitted permit applications relating to the drilling of an additional 96 steam injection wells on certain oil and natural gas properties located onshore in California in the Diatomite z1 at Orcutt (the Orcutt Hill Resource Enhancement Plan or OHREP ). At a hearing in June 2016, the Santa Barbara County Planning Commission (the Planning Commission ) instructed its staff to prepare Findings for Denial, which the Planning Commission adopted by a 3 2 vote in July 2016. In July 2016, PCEC filed an appeal to the Santa Barbara County Board of Supervisors, which heard the appeal in November 2016 and voted 3 2 to deny the project, with the exception of approving permanent permits for the installation of seep cans on PCEC Orcutt Hill property. As a result of the Board of Supervisors decision, future cash flows associated with new permits for drilling in the Diatomite Z1 at Orcutt, all of which would be attributable to Remaining Properties, is uncertain. As of the date of this Annual Report, PCEC has not filed any additional permit applications for drilling in the Diatomite Z1 at Orcutt and currently is unable to estimate when it will submit such permits to Santa Barbara County. If PCEC submits any permit applications in the future, there can be no assurance that Santa Barbara County will approve such permits or that PCEC will be able to generate additional cash flows as a result. The Orcutt Field also has experienced both seeps and surface expressions. Seeps of oil from a z1 that is very near the surface and actually outcrops onto the surface have occurred in parts of the Orcutt Field over long periods of time pre dating oil production and have occurred during periods of recent production. The seeps do not originate from the z1 into which steam is being injected. Rather, they originate from an overlying, near surface z1 When seeps occur, they are contained and monitored. If necessary, a simple canister is placed in the ground to contain any ongoing seepage. PCEC, in consultation with DOGGR, modified its injection practices in order to balance the amount of fluids injected and withdrawn into the Diatomite z1 Since this modification was made, the number of seeps has declined and four, 3, zero, zero and 1 seep cans were installed in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. The permitting of these seeps was part of the OHREP permitting process and was approved by Santa Barbara County. In the permit approval are conditions that, in order to comply, add additional expense including habitat restoration costs for habitat impacted in installation of seep cans, additional inspection and reporting costs and other costs that increase the expenses associated with operating the Orcutt Diatomite. Surface expressions are situations where steam intended to be injected into the Diatomite oil bearing z1 instead leaks from the well and reaches the surface. In 2011, 2 wells in the field developed casing leaks that allowed steam to reach the surface and these wells remain out of service. In 2014, 2 different wells allowed steam to reach the surface, which resulted in the curtailment of steaming operations in several wells to allow the conduct of investigations, which remain ongoing under the supervision of DOGGR. DOGGR may impose additional operational restrictions or requirements, including requiring that wells be shut in, as a result of incidents involving surface expressions. PCEC is allowed to produce from the Diatomite z1 at its Orcutt Newlove property pursuant to a Project Approval Letter ( PAL ). This PAL is subject to change or revocation by DOGGR at its sole discretion. The State of California, through DOGGR, administers the federal Safe Drinking Water Act with respect to underground injection of fluids in conjunction with oil field activities. The EPA is requiring DOGGR to review all of the injection wells in California to determine whether or not the appropriate standards were met to permit injection into the z1s currently allowed. DOGGR is establishing a process, in conjunction with other California state agencies and with the approval of the EPA, to review the current injection practices and, in essence, re permit injection into appropriate injection z1s. DOGGR has issued a preliminary list of more than 2,000 permits wells which it is reexamining. Although n1 of PCEC injection wells have been ordered shut by DOGGR, if new regulatory initiatives are implemented that restrict or prohibit the use of underground injection wells in areas where PCEC relies upon the use of such wells in its operations, PCEC operating costs may significantly increase and its ability to continue production may be delayed or limited, which could have an adverse effect on PCEC results of operation and financial position. The Trust Units may lose value as a result of title deficiencies with respect to the Underlying Properties. The existence of a material title deficiency with respect to the Underlying Properties could reduce the value of a property or render it worthless, thus adversely affecting the Conveyed Interests and the distributions to Trust unitholders. PCEC does not obtain title insurance covering mineral leaseholds, and PCEC failure to cure any title defects may cause PCEC to lose its rights to production from the Underlying Properties. In the event of any such material title problem, profits available for distribution to Trust unitholders and the value of the Trust Units may be reduced. The trading price for the Trust Units may not reflect the value of the Conveyed Interests held by the Trust, which would adversely affect the return on an investment in the units. The trading price for publicly traded securities similar to the Trust Units tends to be tied to recent and expected levels of cash distributions. The amounts available for distribution by the Trust will vary in response to numerous factors outside the control of the Trust, including prevailing prices for sales of oil and natural gas production from the Underlying Properties and the timing and amount of direct operating expenses and development expenses. Consequently, the market price for the Trust Units may not necessarily be indicative of the value that the Trust would realize if it sold the Conveyed Interests to a third party buyer. In addition, such market price may not necessarily reflect that the assets of the Trust are depleting assets, and that therefore a portion of each cash distribution 25 Table of Contents paid with respect to the Trust Units should be considered by investors as a return of capital, with the remainder being considered as a return on investment. As a result, distributions made to a Trust unitholder over the life of these depleting assets may be less than the purchase price paid by the Trust unitholder. If we do not meet the NYSE continued listing requirements, the NYSE may delist the Trust Units, which could affect the market price, trading volume, liquidity and resale price of the Trust Units. Under the NYSE continued listing requirements, a company will be considered to be out of compliance with the NYSE minimum price requirement if the company average closing price over a consecutive 30 trading day period (the Average Closing Price ) is less than $100 (the Minimum Price Requirement ). Under NYSE rules, a company that is out of compliance with the minimum price requirement has a cure period of six months to regain compliance if it notifies the NYSE within 10 business days of receiving a deficiency notice of its intention to cure the deficiency. During the cure period, the company shares would continue to trade on the NYSE, subject to compliance with other continued listing requirements. A company may regain compliance if on the last trading day of any calendar month during the cure period the company has a closing share price of at least $100 and an average closing share price of at least $100 over the 30 trading day period ending on the last trading day of that month. In the event that at the expiration of the cure period, both a $100 closing share price on the last trading day of the cure period and a $100 average closing share price over the 30 trading day period ending on the last trading day of the cure period are not attained, the NYSE will commence suspension and delisting procedures. The Trust was not in compliance with the Minimum Price Requirement for a brief period from late February 2016 until the beginning of April 2016. As of the close of business on December 31, 2018, the Average Closing Price of the Trust Units was $164. Although the Trust Units have been trading at or above $162 per unit since the beginning of 2019, the Average Closing Price could decline in the future and the Trust Units could be delisted as a result. If the Trust Units were to be delisted, they may be transferred to the over the counter ( OTC ) market, a significantly more limited market than the NYSE, which could affect the market price, trading volume, liquidity and resale price of the Trust Units. Securities that trade on the OTC markets also typically experience more volatility compared to securities that trade on a national securities exchange. Conflicts of interest could arise between PCEC and its affiliates, on the 1 hand, and the Trust and the Trust unitholders, on the other hand, which could harm the business or financial results of the Trust. As working interest owners in, and the operators of substantially all wells on, the Underlying Properties, PCEC and its affiliates could have interests that conflict with the interests of the Trust and the Trust unitholders. For example PCEC interests may conflict with those of the Trust and the Trust unitholders in situations involving the development, maintenance, operation or abandonment of certain wells on the Underlying Properties for which PCEC acts as the operator. PCEC may also make decisions with respect to development expenses that adversely affect the Underlying Properties. These decisions include reducing development expenses for those properties for which PCEC acts as the operator, which could cause oil and natural gas production to decline at a faster rate and thereby result in lower cash distributions by the Trust in the future. PCEC may sell some or all of the Underlying Properties without taking into consideration the interests of the Trust unitholders. Such sales may not be in the best interests of the Trust unitholders and the purchasers may lack PCEC experience or its credit worthiness. PCEC also has the right, under certain circumstances, to cause the Trust to release all or a portion of the Conveyed Interests in connection with a sale of a portion of the Underlying Properties to which such Conveyed Interests relates. In such an event, the Trust is entitled to receive the fair market value (net of sales costs) of the Conveyed Interests released, which will be treated as an offset amount against costs and expenses. Please read Properties Abandonment and Sale of Underlying Properties in Item 2 of this Annual Report. The Trust is managed by a Trustee who cannot be replaced except by a majority vote of the Trust unitholders at a special meeting, which may make it difficult for Trust unitholders to remove or replace the Trustee. The affairs of the Trust are managed by the Trustee. The voting rights of a Trust unitholder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for the Trust to hold annual meetings of Trust unitholders or for an annual or other periodic re election of the Trustee. The Trust does not intend to hold annual meetings of Trust unitholders. The Trust Agreement provides that the Trustee may only be removed and replaced by the holders of a majority of the Trust Units present in person or by proxy at a meeting of such holders where a quorum is present, including Trust Units held by PCEC, called by either the Trustee or the holders of not less than 10% of the outstanding Trust Units. 26 Table of Contents Trust unitholders have limited ability to enforce provisions of the Conveyance creating the Conveyed Interests, and PCEC liability to the Trust is limited. The Trust Agreement permits the Trustee to sue PCEC or any other future owner of the Underlying Properties to enforce the terms of the Conveyance creating the Conveyed Interests. If the Trustee does not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of the Conveyance, Trust unitholders recourse would be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the Trustee to compel the Trustee to take specified actions. The Trust Agreement expressly limits a Trust unitholder ability to directly sue PCEC or any other third party other than the Trustee. As a result, Trust unitholders are not able to sue PCEC or any future owner of the Underlying Properties to enforce these rights. Furthermore, the conveyance creating the Conveyed Interests provides that, except as set forth in the Conveyance, PCEC will not be liable to the Trust for the manner in which it performs its duties in operating the Underlying Properties as long as it acts without gross negligence or willful misconduct. Courts outside of Delaware may not recognize the limited liability of the Trust unitholders provided under Delaware law. Under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, Trust unitholders are entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of corporations for profit under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Nevertheless, courts in jurisdictions outside of Delaware could decline to give effect to such limitation. The operations of the Underlying Properties are subject to environmental laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting operations on them or result in significant costs and liabilities, which could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders. The oil and natural gas exploration and production operations on the Underlying Properties are subject to stringent and comprehensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the release, discharge or emission of materials into the environment, the handling of hazardous substances, or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that apply to the operations on the Underlying Properties, including the requirement to obtain a permit before conducting drilling, waste disposal or other regulated activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentrations of materials that can be released into the environment; restrictions on water withdrawal and use; the incurrence of significant development expenses to install pollution or safety related controls at the operated facilities; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wetlands and other protected areas; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. For example, in 2012 and 2016 the EPA published regulations that impose more stringent emissions control requirements for oil and natural gas development and production operations, which may require PCEC, its operators, or third party contractors to incur additional expenses to control air emissions from current operations and during new well developments by installing emissions control technologies and adhering to a variety of work practice and other requirements. These requirements could increase the costs of development and production, reducing the profits available to the Trust and potentially impairing the economic development of the Underlying Properties. Portions of PCEC areas of operation are located in areas that host several endangered plant and animal species. The known presence of these endangered species may limit future operations in certain areas of the properties and will result in increased costs of development as certain procedures must be used to protect such species and costs may be incurred to provide habitat areas or substitute replacement areas. In addition, any future attempt by PCEC to increase production in the Diatomite formation beyond the currently permitted wells will require additional permits and approvals from various state, federal and local agencies, in addition to a new review under the CEQA, possibly including an environmental impact report. Such a process could take many months or longer, and such permits might not be timely obtained or on terms and conditions consistent with PCEC proposed plan. For all of PCEC operations, numerous governmental authorities such as the EPA, analogous state agencies such as the DOGGR and local agencies such as the County of Santa Barbara Planning and Development, Energy Division, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often times requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations; and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of the operations on the Underlying Properties. Furthermore, the inability to comply with environmental laws and regulations in a cost effective manner, such as removal and disposal of produced water and other generated oil and natural gas wastes, could impair PCEC ability to produce oil and natural gas commercially from the Underlying Properties, which would reduce profits and royalties attributable to the Conveyed Interests. The handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, air emissions and wastewater discharges related to operations, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices could result in significant environmental costs and liabilities in the operations on the the Underlying Properties. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, PCEC could be subject to joint and several strict liability for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether 27 Table of Contents PCEC was responsible for the release or contamination or whether PCEC was in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which wells are drilled and facilities where petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. In addition, the risk of accidental spills or releases could expose PCEC to significant liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on PCEC business, financial condition and results of operations and could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly operational control requirements or waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require PCEC to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. PCEC may be unable to recover some or any of these costs from insurance, in which case the amount of cash received by the Trust may be decreased. The Trust indirectly bears an 80% share of all costs and expenses related to the production from the Developed Properties and a 25% share of all costs and expenses related to the production from the Remaining Properties, including those related to environmental compliance and liabilities associated with the Underlying Properties, including costs and liabilities resulting from conditions that existed prior to PCEC acquisition of the Underlying Properties unless such costs and expenses result from the operator negligence or misconduct. In addition, as a result of the increased cost of compliance, PCEC may decide to discontinue drilling. The operations of the Underlying Properties are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting operations on them or expose the operator to significant liabilities, which could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders. The production and development operations on the Underlying Properties are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct its operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, PCEC must obtain and maintain numerous permits, drilling bonds, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities and engage in extensive reporting. PCEC may incur substantial costs and experience delays in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations, and the Trust income is reduced by its 80% share of such costs related to the production from the Developed Properties and a 25% share of such costs related to the production from the Remaining Properties. In addition, PCEC costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to its operations. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on PCEC business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce the amount of cash received by the Trust in respect of the Conveyed Interests. For example, in California, each of the legislative and executive branches in the past have proposed tax increases that have included a severance tax as high as 125% on all oil production in California. The County of Santa Barbara also recently considered imposing a severance tax. Although the proposals have not passed, the State of California could impose a severance tax on oil in the future. While PCEC cannot predict the impact of such a tax given the uncertainty of the proposals, the imposition of such a tax could have severe negative impacts on both its willingness and ability to incur capital expenditures to increase production, could severely reduce or completely eliminate PCEC profit margins and would result in lower oil production in PCEC properties due to the need to shut in wells and facilities made uneconomic either immediately or at an earlier time than would have previously been the case. PCEC must also comply with laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and market manipulations in energy markets. Laws and regulations governing exploration and production may also affect production levels. PCEC is required to comply with federal and state laws and regulations governing conservation matters, including provisions related to the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties; the spacing of wells; the plugging and abandonment of wells; and the removal of related production equipment. Several jurisdictions in California, including Santa Barbara County, have proposed various forms of moratoria or bans on hydraulic fracturing and other hydrocarbon recovery techniques, including traditional waterflooding, acid treatments and cyclic steam injection. A local initiative in Santa Barbara County obtained sufficient signatures to be placed on the ballot in Santa Barbara County in November 2014 but did not receive enough votes to pass. If the initiative had passed, however, the proposed amendments would have directly or indirectly prohibited utilization of waterflooding, cyclic steam injection, acid use for stimulation or maintenance, water injection, and a variety of other recovery methods, on future well sites, and could have materially reduced or prohibited utilization of such recovery techniques from currently producing wells, within Santa Barbara County. The proposed amendments would have also prohibited the use of hydraulic fracturing in Santa Barbara County. 28 Table of Contents Voter initiatives could lead to the adoption of new municipal or state land use regulations such as additional setback requirements from houses, schools and other improvements, which could effectively prohibit exploration and production activities or make such activities more difficult or expensive in the future. For example, in 2018, Colorado citizens voted on Proposition 112, which would have increased drilling location setbacks from 500 feet to 2,500 feet, severely limiting access to oil and natural gas. Although Proposition 112 was defeated, future voter initiatives are possible in other jurisdictions, including California. Meanwhile, state legislators and regulators and local governmental bodies could seek to implement similar restrictions. In California, in recent years the Los Angeles City Council has considered proposals to implement a 2,500 foot setback requirement. The Los Angeles City Council has requested a comprehensive report on the health, environmental, and financial impacts of an oil and gas setback for the Council consideration. The final report is pending. If more stringent setback requirements are adopted, thereby placing limitations on the production and development of oil and natural gas in areas where PCEC conducts operations, PCEC may incur significant costs to comply with such requirements or may experience delays or curtailment in the permitting or pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities. Such requirements may be implemented through ordinances without public vote or with public vote. Additionally, state and federal regulatory authorities may expand or alter applicable pipeline safety laws and regulations, compliance with which may require increased capital costs on the part of PCEC and third party downstream oil and natural gas transporters. These and other laws and regulations can limit the amount of oil and natural gas PCEC can produce from its wells, limit the number of wells it can drill, or limit the locations at which it can conduct drilling operations, which in turn could adversely affect Trust distributions, estimated and actual future net revenues to the Trust and estimates of reserves attributable to the Trust interests. New laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations, may unfavorably impact PCEC, could result in increased operating costs or have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations and reduce the amount of cash received by the Trust. For example, Congress has considered legislation that, if adopted, would subject companies involved in oil and natural gas exploration and production activities to, among other Item, the elimination of certain U.S. federal tax incentives and deductions available to oil and natural gas exploration and production activities and the prohibition or additional regulation of private energy commodity derivative and hedging activities. These and other potential regulations could increase the operating costs of PCEC, reduce its liquidity, delay its operations or otherwise alter the way PCEC conducts its business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Trust and the amount of cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders. The assessment of significant property taxes against PCEC could materially adversely affect the amount of cash available for distributions by the Trust to unitholders. From time to time, PCEC receives property tax bills or supplemental property tax assessments from various counties where PCEC properties are located. In some cases where PCEC does not agree with the tax assessments received, it pays the property taxes under appeal until an agreement can be reached with the county involved in the dispute. In cases where the resolution between PCEC and the county results in additional property tax expenses, the additional cost would be allocated to the Underlying Properties and the Net Profits Interests. These additional property taxes could be significant and consequently could affect the amount available for distributions by the Trust. In March 2016, PCEC reached a settlement agreement with the Santa Barbara County Assessor Office on supplemental property tax bills related to the tax years covering the periods July 1, 2011 through June 30, 2016. The supplemental tax bills relate to the settlement of disputed property values for Orcutt Conventional and Orcutt Diatomite field locations for these periods. Amounts attributable to the period from April 1, 2012 through June 30, 2016 totaled $21 million for the Developed Properties and $13 million for the Remaining Properties and were charged in part to the Trust in the March 2016 production month calculation of the net profits. The property tax adjustment amounts attributable to the Trust increased the cumulative Net Profits Interest deficits of the Developed Properties and the Remaining Properties by $14 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Similar property tax adjustments could occur again, including for other properties and with respect to other time periods and could result in decreases to amounts payable to the Trust pursuant to the Net Profits Interests. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that PCEC produces while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt their production and cause it to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has issued regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the CAA. These regulations include limits on tailpipe emissions from motor vehicles and pre construction and operating permit requirements for certain large stationary sources. The EPA also has adopted rules requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, including certain onshore oil and natural gas production facilities, on an annual basis. In addition, in 2016 the EPA adopted federal New Source Performance Standards ( NSPS ) for new, modified, or reconstructed oil and gas facilities that require control of the greenhouse gas methane from affected facilities, including requirements to find and repair fugitive leaks of methane emissions at well sites (the Methane Rule ). Following the 2016 29 Table of Contents presidential election and change in administrations, in 2017 the EPA proposed to delay implementation of the Methane Rule and also convened a reconsideration proceeding that resulted in 2 2018 rulemaking projects aimed at rolling back certain Methane Rule requirements. These actions, like the Methane Rule itself, have been (or are likely to be) challenged in courts. The ultimate fate of the Methane Rule requirements is unclear. Nevertheless, regulations promulgated under the CAA may require PCEC to incur development expenses to install and utilize specific equipment, technologies, or work practices to control greenhouse gas emissions from its operations. In addition, from time to time the U.S. Congress has considered legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and many of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, primarily through the implementation of state and or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal. California has been 1 of the leading states in adopting greenhouse gas emission reduction requirements and has implemented a cap and trade program as well as mandates for renewable fuels sources. California cap and trade program requires PCEC to report greenhouse gas emissions and essentially sets maximum limits or caps on total emissions of greenhouse gases from all industrial sectors that are or become subject to the program. PCEC main sources of greenhouse gas emissions for oil and gas operations are primarily attributable to emissions from internal combustion engines powering wells emissions from drilling rigs and the steam generators that are used to produce steam for cyclic steaming. In June 2017, California passed AB 398, legislation delaying the expiration of the cap and trade program from 2020 to 2030. The program will continue largely unchanged, and PCEC will continue to be required to obtain authorizations for each metric ton of greenhouse gases emitted, either in the form of allowances (each the equivalent of 1 ton of carbon dioxide) or qualifying offset credits. The state will grant a portion of the allowance but any shortfall between the state granted allowance and the facility emissions will have to be addressed through the purchase of additional allowances either from the state or a third party. The availability of allowances will decline over time in accordance with the declining cap, and the cost to acquire such allowances may increase over time. These regulations increase PCEC costs for those operations and adversely affect its operating results. Because regulation of greenhouse gas emissions is relatively new, further regulatory, legislative and judicial developments are likely to occur. Such developments may affect how these greenhouse gas initiatives will impact PCEC and the Trust. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the regulation of and other risks associated with greenhouse gas emissions, PCEC cannot predict the financial impact of related developments on PCEC or the Trust. Due to the Trust lack of geographic and industry diversification, adverse developments in California could adversely affect the results of operations and cash flows of the Underlying Properties and reduce the amount of cash available for distributions to Trust unitholders. The operations of the Underlying Properties are focused exclusively on the production and development of oil and natural gas within the state of California. As a result, the results of operations and cash flows of the Underlying Properties depend upon continuing operations in this area. This concentration could disproportionately expose the Trust interests to operational and regulatory risk in this area. Due to the lack of diversification in geographic location, adverse developments in exploration and production of oil and natural gas in this area of operation could have a significantly greater impact on the results of operations and cash flows of the Underlying Properties than if the operations were more diversified. Cyber attacks or other failures in telecommunications or information technology systems could result in information theft, data corruption and significant disruption of PCEC business operations. In recent years, PCEC has increasingly relied on information technology ( IT ) systems and ne2rks in connection with its business activities, including certain of its exploration, development and production activities. PCEC relies on digital technology, including information systems and related infrastructure, as well as cloud applications and services, to, among other things, estimate quantities of oil and natural gas reserves, analyze seismic and drilling information, process and record financial and operating data and communicate with employees and third parties. As dependence on digital technologies has increased, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks and attempts to gain unauthorized access to computer systems and ne2rks, have increased in frequency and sophistication. These threats pose a risk to the security of PCEC systems and ne2rks, the confidentiality, availability and integrity of its data and the physical security of its employees and assets. PCEC has experienced, and expects to continue to experience, attempts from hackers and other third parties to gain unauthorized access to its IT systems and ne2rks. Although prior cyber attacks have not had a material adverse effect on PCEC operations or financial performance, PCEC might not be successful in preventing cyber attacks or mitigating their effect. Any cyber attack could have a material adverse effect on PCEC reputation, competitive position, business, financial condition and results of operations, and could have a material adverse effect on the Trust. Cyber attacks or security breaches also could result in litigation or regulatory action, as well as significant additional expense to PCEC to implement further data protection measures. 30 Table of Contents In addition to the risks presented to PCEC systems and ne2rks, cyber attacks affecting oil and natural gas distribution systems maintained by third parties, or the ne2rks and infrastructure on which they rely, could delay or prevent delivery to markets. A cyber attack of this nature would be outside PCEC ability to control, but could have a material adverse effect on PCEC business, financial condition and results of operations, and could have a material adverse effect on the Trust. Cyber attacks or other failures in telecommunications or IT systems could result in information theft, data corruption and significant disruption of the Trustee operations. The Trustee depends heavily upon IT systems and ne2rks in connection with its business activities. Despite a variety of security measures implemented by the Trustee, events such as the loss or theft of back up tapes or other data storage media could occur, and the Trustee computer systems could be subject to physical and electronic break ins, cyber attacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering, including threats that may come from external factors, such as governments, organized crime, hackers and third parties to whom certain functions are outsourced, or may originate internally from within the respective companies. If a cyber attack were to occur, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, the Trustee computer systems and ne2rks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of the Trust, which could result in litigation, increased costs and regulatory penalties. Although steps are taken to prevent and detect such attacks, it is possible that a cyber incident will not be discovered for some time after it occurs, which could increase exposure to these consequences. Tax Risks Related to the Trust Trust Units The Trust has not requested a ruling from the IRS regarding the tax treatment of the Trust. If the IRS were to determine (and be sustained in that determination) that the Trust is not a grantor trust for federal income tax purposes, the Trust could be subject to more complex and costly tax reporting requirements that could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders. Although the tax treatment of overriding royalty interests in specified developed wells that have been drilled is well developed, the law is less developed in the area of overriding royalty interests on exploration prospects that are not classified as proved, probable or possible reserves and are undeveloped wells that may be drilled in the future. Based on the state of facts on the date on which this Annual Report was filed, the Trust continues to treat the Trust Units as mineral royalty interests for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, no ruling has been requested from the IRS regarding the proper treatment of the Trust Units; therefore, the IRS may assert, or a court may sustain the IRS in asserting, that the Trust Units should be treated as production payments that are debt instruments for U.S. federal income tax purposes subject to the Treasury Regulations applicable to contingent payment debt instruments. If the Trust were not treated as a grantor trust for federal income tax purposes, the Trust may be properly classified as a partnership for such purposes. Although the Trust would not become subject to federal income taxation at the entity level as a result of treatment as a partnership, and Item of income, gain, loss and deduction would flow through to the Trust unitholders, the Trust tax compliance requirements would be more complex and costly to implement and maintain, and its distributions to Trust unitholders could be reduced as a result. Neither PCEC nor the Trustee has requested a ruling from the IRS regarding the tax status of the Trust, and neither PCEC nor the Trustee intends to request such a ruling or can assure you that such a ruling would be granted if requested or that the IRS will not challenge these positions on audit. Trust unitholders should be aware of the possible state tax implications of owning Trust Units and should consult with their tax advisors. Certain U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available with respect to oil and natural gas production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The passage of any legislation or changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postp1 certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, which could reduce the cash available for distribution to the Trust unitholders or adversely affect the value of the Trust Units. 31 Table of Contents Unitholders are required to pay taxes on their share of the Trust income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from the Trust. Trust unitholders are treated as if they own the Trust assets and receive the Trust income and are directly taxable thereon as if no Trust were in existence. Because the Trust generates taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash the Trust distributes, unitholders are required to pay any federal and applicable California income taxes and, in some cases, other state and local income taxes on their share of the Trust taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from the Trust. A unitholder may not receive cash distributions from the Trust equal to such unitholder share of the Trust taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. A portion of any tax gain on the disposition of the Trust Units could be taxed as ordinary income. If a unitholder sells Trust Units, the unitholder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the unitholder tax basis in those Trust Units. A substantial portion of any gain recognized may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture Item, including depletion recapture. Potential investors should consult with their tax advisors prior to acquiring Trust Units. Please see Federal Income Tax Matters in Item 1 Business in this Annual Report for additional information. The Trust allocates its Item of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Trust Units each month based upon the ownership of the Trust Units on the monthly record date, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Trust Unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of Item of income, gain, loss and deduction among the Trust unitholders. The Trust generally allocates its Item of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Trust Units each month based upon the ownership of the Trust Units on the monthly record date, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Trust Unit is transferred. It is possible that the IRS could disagree with this allocation method and could assert that income and deductions of the Trust should be determined and allocated on a daily or prorated basis, which could require adjustments to the tax returns of the Trust unitholders affected by the issue and result in an increase in the administrative expense of the Trust in subsequent periods. As a result of investing in Trust Units, unitholders may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in California. In addition to federal income taxes, Trust unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes that are imposed in California, where the Underlying Properties are located, even if the Trust unitholders do not live in California. Trust unitholders likely are required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in California. Further, Trust unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of each Trust unitholder to file all federal, state and local tax returns. At the time of the formation of the Trust, PCEC on behalf of the Trust obtained a 2 year waiver from the State of California of the requirement to withhold 7% of the amounts paid to the Trust that are attributable to the Conveyed Interests held by unitholders not qualifying for an exemption from withholding. PCEC on behalf of the Trust will use its commercially reasonable efforts to maintain such waiver, including by seeking a renewal of such waiver prior to its expiration under California law. The Trust has received a renewal of the waiver for the years 2018 and 2019. The Trust may not be able to obtain such a waiver in the future, in which case PCEC on behalf of the Trust would be required to withhold such amounts beginning with the distribution expected to be paid in January 2020. Trust unitholders should consult their tax advisors as to the specific tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of the Trust Units, including the applicability and effect of U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign income and other tax laws in light of their particular circumstances. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. N1 32 Table of Contents Item 2 Properties.
