CIK: 1552000
Company Name: MPLX LP
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-02-28
Accession Number: 0001552000-19-000006


Item 1 Business OVERVIEW We are a diversified, large cap master limited partnership ( MLP ) formed in 2012 by MPC (as our sponsor) that owns and operates midstream energy infrastructure and logistics assets, and provides fuels distribution services. We are engaged in the transportation, storage and distribution of crude oil and refined petroleum products; gathering, processing and transportation of natural gas; and the gathering, transportation, fractionation, storage and marketing of NGLs. Our operations are conducted in the following operating segments Logistics and Storage ( L&S ) and Gathering and Processing ( G&P ). Our L&S assets are primarily located in the Midwest and Gulf Coast regions of the United States while our G&P assets are primarily located in the Northeast and Southwest regions of the United States. For more information on these segments, see Our Operating Segments discussion below. The map below and Item 2 Properties detail our assets as of December 31, 2018 We have a strategic relationship with MPC, which is a large source of our revenues, where we have executed multiple transportation and storage services agreements which are long term, fee based agreements with minimum volume commitments which provide us with a stable and predictable revenue stream and source of cash flows. MPC significant interest in us and its stated intent to grow its midstream business has been evidenced by the completion of various dropdowns of MLP qualifying midstream assets throughout 2017 and 2018. In addition, immediately following the completion of the dropdowns in 2018, our general partner IDRs were eliminated and its 2 percent economic general partner interest in MPLX LP was converted into a non economic general partner interest, all in exchange for 275 million newly issued MPLX LP common units (the GP IDR Exchange ). This exchange eliminated the general partner cash distribution requirements of MPLX. As of December 31, 2018 , MPC owned approximately 64 percent of our outstanding common units. MPC will continue to be an important source of our revenues and cash flows for the foreseeable future. We also have long term relationships with a 4 Table of Contents diverse set of producer customers in many natural gas resource plays, including the Marcellus Shale, Utica Shale, STACK Shale and Permian Basin among others. The growth of our business has provided us with the financial flexibility to maintain an investment grade credit profile and fund our organic growth capital plan with operating cash and debt. We have significant opportunities to develop, expand and participate in projects which complement our existing assets. We continue to evaluate our non organic growth opportunities through third party midstream acquisitions to enhance our existing geographic footprint or expand our activities into new areas. 2018 RESULTS The following table summarizes the operating performance for each segment for the year ended December 31, 2018 . For further discussion of our segments and a reconciliation to our Consolidated Statements of Income, see Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as well as Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 10 . 2018 (In millions) L&S G&P Total Segment revenues and other income $ 3,240 $ 3,185 $ 6,425 Segment cost of revenues and purchases 1,086 1,707 2,793 Segment income from operations 1,736 767 2,503 Segment Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,057 $ 1,418 $ 3,475 RECENT DEVELOPMENTS On January 25, 2019 , we announced the board of directors of our general partner had declared a distribution of $0.6475 per common unit that was paid on February 14, 2019 to common unitholders of record on February 5, 2019 . On November 15, 2018, MPLX issued $225 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes in a public offering, consisting of $750 million aggregate principal amount of 4.8 percent unsecured senior notes due February 2029 and $15 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.5 percent unsecured senior notes due February 2049 (collectively, the November 2018 New Senior Notes ). The November 2018 New Senior Notes were offered at a price to the public of 99.432 percent and 98.031 percent of par, respectively. The proceeds were used to repay outstanding borrowings under the MPLX Credit Agreement (see Note 18 ) and the MPC Loan Agreement (see Note 6 ) and to redeem the $750 million 5.5 percent senior notes due February 2023, as well as for general business purposes. Interest on each series of notes in the November 2018 New Senior Notes is payable semi annually in arrears on February 15 and August 15, commencing on February 15, 2019. On December 10, 2018, MPLX redeemed all of the $750 million 5.5 percent senior notes due February 15, 2023 , $40 million of which was issued by the MarkWest subsidiary. These notes were redeemed at 101833 percent of the principal amount, which resulted in a payment of $14 million related to the note premium and the immediate recognition of $46 million of unamortized debt issuance costs. 2018 ACQUISITIONS, INVESTMENTS AND OTHER HIGHLIGHTS During 2018, we continued to execute on our organic growth plan through projects which included expansion of the Ozark pipeline and Wood River to Patoka pipelines, completion of the Robinson Butane Cavern, tank farm and marine fleet expansions, and the addition of processing and fractionating capacity at numerous plants through projects which were completed throughout the year. We also had non organic growth through the acquisition of MPLX Refining Logistics LLC ( Refining Logistics ) and MPLX Fuels Distribution LLC ( Fuels Distribution ) from MPC as well as the acquisition of an eastern U.S. Gulf Coast export terminal (the Mt. Airy Terminal ) as described below. On September 26, 2018, MPLX acquired the Mt. Airy Terminal, which has 4 million barrels of third party leased storage capacity and a 120 mbpd dock, from Pin Oak Holdings, LLC, for $451 million. The facility has the capability to significantly expand its storage capacity to 10 million barrels and is permitted for construction of a second 120 mbpd dock. The facility is strategically located on the Mississippi River between New Orleans and Baton Rouge and is near several Gulf Coast refineries, including MPC Garyville refinery. The Mt. Airy Terminal can handle multiple refined products, as well as residual fuel and bunker products, to provide optionality and flexibility of feedstocks and finished products in a single location. The Mt. Airy Terminal also has significant growth opportunities as a result of multiple pipelines and rail lines crossing the property in 5 Table of Contents addition to being positi1d as an aggregation point for liquids growth for both ocean going vessels and inland barges. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 4 for additional information. On February 8, 2018, MPLX issued $5.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes in a public offering, consisting of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3375 percent unsecured senior notes due March 2023, $125 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.0 percent unsecured senior notes due March 2028, $175 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.5 percent unsecured senior notes due April 2038, $15 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.7 percent unsecured senior notes due April 2048, and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.9 percent unsecured senior notes due April 2058. The notes were offered at a price to the public of 99.931 percent, 99.551 percent, 98.811 percent, 99.348 percent, and 99.289 percent of par, respectively. The net proceeds were used to repay the $4.1 billion 364 day term loan facility (drawn to fund the cash portion of the consideration for the Refining Logistics and Fuels Distribution acquisition described below) and other borrowings as well as for general business purposes. On February 1, 2018 , MPLX acquired Refining Logistics and Fuels Distribution from MPC in exchange for $4.1 billion in cash and common units and general partner units of 1116 million and 23 million , respectively. The general partner units maintained MPC 2 percent economic general partner interest, which converted into a non economic general partner interest immediately thereafter as part of the GP IDR Exchange. Refining Logistics owns and operates the integrated tank farm assets that support MPC refining operations. These essential logistics assets included 619 tanks with approximately 56 million barrels of storage capacity (crude, finished products and intermediates), 32 rail and truck racks, 18 docks, and gasoline blenders. Fuels Distribution is structured to provide a broad range of scheduling and marketing services as an agent of MPC. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 4 for additional details. BUSINESS STRATEGIES Our primary business objective is to enhance the generation of stable cash flows through executing the following strategies Capture Full Midstream Value Chain We intend to develop incremental infrastructure to support growth across the hydrocarbon value chain. Touch points across the value chain include gathering, processing, fractionation, and inbound outbound logistics assets such as long haul pipelines and export facilities. This diversification and integration provide multiple sources of stable fee based revenue while also enhancing opportunities for third party revenue capture. Enhance Cash Flow Stability We are focused on growing our fee based services through long term contracts which provide through cycle cash flow stability. Planned investments in long haul pipelines are expected to connect supply to demand markets while adding a source of stable cash flow to the company and expanding our export capabilities will enhance our ability to meet significant growing market needs. For the year ending December 31, 2019, we expect fee based contracts to be approximately 95 percent of our Net operating margin (for more information on Net operating margin, which is a non GAAP measure, see Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Growth in Premier Basins Our assets are located in some of the premier production areas in the United States, including the Marcellus and Permian basins. Our business strategy and investments are focused on connecting supply to global demand markets. We intend to increase operating cash flow by investing in opportunities that may arise in our areas of operations and increasing the utilization of our existing facilities. We will evaluate organic growth projects both within our geographic footprint as well as in new areas that we consider strategic. Maintain Financial Discipline We high grade our portfolio of investment opportunities to ensure efficient deployment of capital focusing on mid teen returns. Our goal is to optimize our cost of capital by maintaining an investment grade credit profile and funding our organic growth capital plan with operating cash and debt. The company does not intend to issue public equity to fund its organic growth capital needs. Maintain Safe and Reliable Operations We believe that providing safe, reliable and efficient services is a key comp1nt in generating stable cash flows. We are committed to maintaining and improving the safety, reliability and efficiency of our operations. Our intent is to continue promoting high standards for safety and environmental stewardship. 6 Table of Contents ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE The following diagram depicts our organizational structure and MPC ownership interest in us as of February 15, 2019 . We are an MLP with outstanding common units and preferred units. Our common units are publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol MPLX. The preferred units rank senior to all common units with respect to distributions and rights upon liquidation. The holders of the preferred units received cumulative quarterly distributions equal to $0.528125 per unit for each quarter prior to the second quarter of 2018. Beginning with the second quarter of 2018, the holders of the preferred units are entitled to receive a quarterly distribution equal to the greater of $0.528125 per unit or the amount of distributions they would have received on an as converted basis. The holders may convert their preferred units into common units at any time after the third anniversary of the issuance date or prior to liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Partnership, in full or in part, subject to minimum conversion amounts and conditions. After the fourth anniversary of the issuance date, MPLX may convert the preferred units into common units at any time, in whole or in part, subject to certain minimum conversion amounts and conditions, if the closing price of MPLX LP common units is greater than $48.75 for the 20 day trading period immediately preceding the conversion notice date. The conversion rate for the preferred units shall be the quotient of (a) the sum of (i) $3250, plus (ii) any unpaid cash distributions on the applicable preferred unit, divided by (b) $3250, subject to adjustment for unit distributions, unit splits and similar transactions. The holders of the preferred units are entitled to vote on an as converted basis with the common unitholders and have certain other class voting rights with respect to any amendment to the Partnership 7 Table of Contents Agreement that would adversely affect any rights, preferences or privileges of the preferred units. In addition, upon certain events involving a change in control the holders of preferred units may elect, among other potential elections, to convert their preferred units to common units at the then applicable change of control conversion rate. INDUSTRY OVERVIEW As of December 31, 2018 , our diversified services in the midstream sector are across the hydrocarbon value chain. The types of midstream services provided by both our L&S and G&P segments are as follows L&S Our L&S assets are integral to the success of MPC operations related to transportation and storage across the hydrocarbon value chain. Logistics . Crude oil is the primary raw material for transportation fuels and the basis for many products including plastics and petrochemicals, in addition to heating oil for homes once it is refined and prepared for use. Pipelines bring advantaged North American crude oil from the upper Great Plains, Louisiana, Texas and Canada to numerous refiners. Terminals provide for the receipt, storage, blending, additization, handling and redelivery of refined petroleum products. Storage . The hydrocarbon market is often volatile and the ability to take advantage of fast moving market conditions is enhanced by our ability to store crude oil and other hydrocarbon based products at our tank farms, butane and propane caverns, and in tanks within MPC refineries. Storage facilities provide flexibility and logistics optionality, which enhances MPC ability to maximize returns for refined products. G&P The midstream natural gas industry is the link between the exploration for, and production of, natural gas and the delivery of its hydrocarbon comp1nts to end use markets. The comp1nts of this value chain are graphically depicted and further described below Gathering. The natural gas production process begins with the drilling of wells into gas bearing rock formations. At the initial stages of the midstream value chain, a ne2rk of pipelines known as gathering systems directly connect to wellheads in the production area. These gathering systems transport raw, or untreated, natural gas to a central location for treating and processing. A large gathering system may involve thousands of miles of gathering lines connected to thousands of wells. Gathering systems are typically designed to be highly flexible to allow gathering of natural gas at different pressures and scalable to allow gathering of additional production without significant incremental capital expenditures. Compression. Natural gas compression is a mechanical process in which a volume of natural gas at a given pressure is compressed to a desired higher pressure, which allows the natural gas to be gathered more efficiently and delivered into a higher pressure system, processing plant or pipeline. Field compression is typically used to allow a gathering system to operate at a lower pressure or provide sufficient discharge pressure to deliver natural gas into a higher pressure system. Since wells produce at progressively lower field pressures as they deplete, field compression is needed to maintain throughput across the gathering system. Treating and dehydration. To the extent that gathered natural gas contains contaminants, such as water vapor, carbon dioxide and or hydrogen sulfide, such natural gas is dehydrated to remove the saturated water and treated to separate the carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide from the gas stream. Processing. Natural gas has a widely varying composition depending on the field, formation reservoir or facility from which it is produced. Processing removes the heavier and more valuable hydrocarbon comp1nts, which are 8 Table of Contents extracted as a mixed NGL stream that includes ethane, propane, butanes and natural gasoline (also referred to as y grade ). Processing aids in allowing the residue gas remaining after extraction of NGLs to meet the quality specifications for long haul pipeline transportation and commercial use. Fractionation. Fractionation is the separation of the mixture of extracted NGLs into individual comp1nts for end use sale. It is accomplished by controlling the temperature and pressure of the stream of mixed NGLs in order to take advantage of the different boiling points and vapor pressures of separate products. Fractionation systems typically exist either as an integral part of a gas processing plant or as a central fractionator, often located many miles from the primary production and processing complex. A central fractionator may receive mixed streams of NGLs from many processing plants. A fractionator can fractionate 1 product or in a central fractionator, multiple products. We operate fractionation facilities at certain processing facilities that separate ethane from the remainder of the y grade stream. We also operate central fractionation facilities that separate y grade into propane, butanes and natural gasoline. Storage, transportation and marketing. Once the raw natural gas has been treated or processed and the raw NGL mix has been fractionated into individual NGL comp1nts, the natural gas is delivered to downstream transmission pipelines and NGL comp1nts are stored, transported and marketed to end use markets. We market NGLs domestically as well as for export to international markets. NGLs are transported via pipeline, railcar, including unit trains, and truck. Each pipeline typically has storage capacity located both throughout the pipeline ne2rk and at major market centers to help temper seasonal demand and daily operational or supply demand shifts. We also have caverns for propane storage in the northeastern United States. Due to advances in well completion technology and horizontal drilling techniques, unconventional sources, such as shale and tight sand formations, have become the most significant source of current and expected future natural gas production. The industry as a whole is characterized by regional competition, based on the proximity of gathering systems and processing fractionating plants to producing natural gas wells, or to facilities that produce natural gas as a byproduct of refining crude oil. Due to the shift in the source of natural gas production, midstream providers with a significant presence in the shale plays will likely have a competitive advantage. Well positi1d operations allow access to all major NGL markets and provide for the development of export solutions for producers. This proximity is enhanced by infrastructure build out and pipeline projects. OUR OPERATING SEGMENTS We conduct our operations in 2 segments which include L&S and G&P. As of December 31, 2018 , our assets and operations in each of these segments are described below. L&S The L&S segment includes transportation, storage and marketing of crude oil, refined products and other hydrocarbon based products, primarily in the Midwest and Gulf Coast regions of the United States. These assets consist of a ne2rk of wholly and jointly owned common carrier crude oil and refined product pipelines and associated storage assets, refined product terminals, storage caverns, refinery integrated tank farm assets including rail and truck racks, an inland marine business, an export terminal, and a fuels distribution business. Our pipeline ne2rk includes over 8,000 miles of pipeline across 17 states. Our storage caverns consist of butane, propane, and liquefied petroleum gas ( LPG ) storage with a combined capacity of 4.175 million barrels located in Neal, West Virginia; Woodhaven, Michigan; and Robinson, Illinois. Our terminal facilities for the receipt, storage, blending, additization, handling and redelivery of refined petroleum products are located primarily in the Midwest, Gulf Coast and Southeast regions of the United States, and have a combined total shell capacity of approximately 237 million barrels. We also own tank farm assets at certain MPC refineries which include approximately 56 million barrels storage capacity, in addition to 48 rail and truck racks, 21 docks, and gasoline blenders. Our marine business owns and operates 23 boats, 256 barges, and third party chartered equipment and includes a Marine Repair Facility ( MRF ), which is a full service marine shipyard located on the Ohio River adjacent to MPC Catlettsburg, Kentucky refinery. Our fuels distribution business provides MPC with a broad range of scheduling and marketing services. Additionally, we have ownership in various joint interests, including LOOP LLC, the only U.S. deep water oil port, located offshore of Louisiana, which is used to import and export crude oil. We have completed the Robinson Butane Cavern project, Texas City tank farm expansion project, and major expansion work on the Ozark pipeline system as well as increasing our overall pipeline capacity across a variety of other pipeline systems. Our L&S assets are integral to the success of MPC operations. We generate revenue in the L&S segment primarily by charging tariffs for transporting crude oil, refined products and other hydrocarbon based products through our pipelines and at our barge docks delivering to domestic and international destinations, and fees for storing crude oil and refined products at our storage facilities. Our marine business generates revenue under a fee for capacity contract with MPC. Our fuels distribution business provides services related to the scheduling and marketing of products on behalf of MPC, for which it generates revenue based on the volume of MPC products sold each month. We are 9 Table of Contents also the operator of additional crude oil and refined product pipelines owned by MPC and third parties for which we are paid operating fees. For the year ended December 31, 2018 , approximately 92 percent of L&S segment revenue and other income was generated from MPC. In this segment, we do not take ownership of the crude oil or products that we transport and store for our customers, and we do not engage in the trading of any commodities. However, we could be required to purchase or sell hydrocarbon based volumes in the open market to make up negative or positive imbalances. G&P We operate several natural gas gathering systems with the scope of gathering services that we provide dependent upon the composition of the raw or untreated gas at our producer customers wellheads. For dry gas, we gather and, if necessary, treat the gas and deliver it to downstream transmission systems. For wet gas that contains heavier and more valuable hydrocarbons, we gather the gas for processing at a processing complex. The capacities of these gathering systems are supported by long term, fee based agreements with major producer customers. Our natural gas processing complexes remove the heavier and more valuable hydrocarbon comp1nts from natural gas. This allows the residue gas remaining after extraction of the NGLs to meet the quality specifications for long haul pipeline transportation or commercial use. Once natural gas has been processed at a natural gas processing complex, the heavier and more valuable hydrocarbon comp1nts, which have been extracted as a mixed NGL stream, can be further separated into their comp1nt parts through the process of fractionation. Our NGL fractionation facilities separate the mixture of extracted NGLs into individual purity product comp1nts for end use sale. Our fractionation facilities for propane and heavier NGLs are supported by long term, fee based agreements with our key producer customers. All NGLs, other than purity ethane as discussed below, produced at our Cadiz Complex, Seneca Complex, Harmon Creek Complex, Majorsville Complex, Mobley Complex and Sherwood Complex are gathered to the Houston Complex or to the Hopedale Complex through a system of NGL pipelines to allow for fractionation into purity NGL products. NGLs other than purity ethane produced at the Bluest1 processing plant are also fractionated at the Bluest1 Complex into purity NGL products. We can also gather NGLs produced at a third party processing facilities to the Houston, Hopedale and Bluest1 Complexes for fractionation. As a result of the volume of natural gas production from the liquids rich areas of the Marcellus and Utica Shales, we recover ethane from the natural gas stream for producer customers, which allows them to meet residue gas pipeline quality specifications and downstream pipeline commitments. Depending on market conditions, producer customers may also benefit from the potential price uplift received from the sale of their ethane. We have connections to several downstream ethane pipeline projects from many of our systems as follows We transport purity ethane produced at the Majorsville Complex, Mobley Complex and Sherwood Complex to the Houston Complex on a FERC pipeline. We deliver purity ethane to Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. ( Sunoco ) Mariner West pipeline ( Mariner West ) from the Harmon Creek Complex, Houston Complex and Bluest1 Complex. We deliver purity ethane to Enterprise Products Partners L.P. Appalachia to Texas Express pipeline from the Houston Complex and the Cadiz Complex. Sunoco developed the Mariner East project ( Mariner East ), a pipeline and marine project that originates at our Houston Complex. In December 2014, Mariner East began transporting propane to Sunoco terminal near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ( Marcus Hook Facility ) where it is loaded onto marine vessels and delivered to international markets. In May 2016, Mariner East began transporting purity ethane in addition to propane to the Marcus Hook Facility. In December 2018, phase 2 of Mariner East, a pipeline from our Houston and Hopedale Complexes in western Pennsylvania and eastern Ohio, respectively, began transporting propane and butane to the Marcus Hook Facility where it is loaded onto marine vessels and delivered to domestic and international markets. 10 Table of Contents As production in geographic regions and market demand continues to evolve, so do our planned capital expenditures. The following table summarizes our properties that are expected to be constructed or have planned expansions in upcoming years. For a full list of our gas processing facilities, fractionation facilities, natural gas gathering systems, NGL pipelines and natural gas pipelines see Item 2 Properties Gathering and Processing. Plant Existing capacity Planned capacity expansion Expected in service of expansion capacity Geographic Region Processing (MMcf d) Sherwood Complex 2,200 400 2019 Marcellus Operations Smithburg Complex 1,200 TBD Marcellus Operations Western Oklahoma Complex 500 165 2019 Southwest Operations Tor ado Complex 200 2019 Southwest Operations Apollo Complex 200 2020 Southwest Operations Preakness Complex 200 2021 Southwest Operations Fractionation (mbpd) Hopedale Complex 240 80 2019 Marcellus Utica Operations De ethanization (mbpd) Sherwood Complex 60 20 2019 Marcellus Operations A significant portion of our business comes from a limited number of key customers. For the year ended December 31, 2018 , revenues earned from 2 customers are significant to the segment, each accounting for 15 percent of G&P operating revenues and seven percent of consolidated operating revenues, respectively. The following table summarizes our key producer customers and attributes for each geographic region Marcellus Operations Utica Operations Southern Appalachian Operations Southwest Operations Key Producer Customers Range Resources, Antero Resources (1) , EQT (1) , CNX, Southwestern (1) , HG Energy (1) , Penn Energy and others Ascent, Gulfport, Antero Resources (1) , EQT and others Diversified Gas and Oil (1) , and Gas Supply Resources (1) Newfield, BP, Trinity, Chevron USA and others Volume Protection 67% of 2018 capacity contains minimum volume commitments 27% of 2018 capacity contains minimum volume commitments 24% of 2018 capacity contains minimum volume commitments 14% of 2018 capacity contains minimum volume commitments Area Dedications 4.1 million acres 39 million acres N1 20 million acres (1) We do not provide gathering services for these producer customers. For further financial information regarding our segments, see Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 11 Table of Contents OUR L&S CONTRACTS WITH MPC AND THIRD PARTIES Transportation Services Agreements, Storage Services Agreements, Terminal Services Agreements and Fuels Distribution Services Agreement with MPC Our L&S assets are strategically located within, and integral to, MPC operations. We have entered into multiple transportation, terminal and storage services agreements with MPC. Under these long term, fee based agreements, we provide transportation, terminal and storage services to MPC and, other than under our marine transportation services agreement, MPC has committed to provide us with minimum quarterly throughputs. MPC has also committed to provide a fixed fee for 100 percent of available capacity for boats, barges and third party chartered equipment under the marine transportation services agreement. We also have a Fuels Distribution Services Agreement with MPC under which we provide scheduling and marketing services of MPC products. The following table sets forth additional information regarding our transportation, terminal, fuels distribution, and storage services agreements with MPC Agreement Initiation Date Term (years) (4) MPC minimum commitment (1) Transportation Services (mbpd) Crude pipelines Various 5 10 1,421 Product pipelines Various 10 15 1,005 Marine January 1, 2015 6 N A (2) Storage Services (mbbls) Caverns Various 10 17 4,175 Tank Farms (3) Various 3 10 75,740 Terminal Services (mbbls) April 1, 2016 10 131,530 Fuels Distribution Services (million gallons) February 1, 2018 10 23,449 (1) Quarterly commitments for our transportation services agreements refer to throughput in thousands of barrels per day and, for crude oil transportation services agreements, are adjusted for crude viscosities. Commitments for our cavern storage services agreements refer to thousands of barrels. Commitments for our terminal services agreements refer to quarterly terminal throughput in thousands of barrels. Commitments for the Fuels Distribution Services Agreement refers to millions of gallons per year. Minimum commitments on some agreements are reduced by any third party throughput volumes. (2) MPC has committed to utilize 100 percent of our available capacity of boats and barges. (3) Volume shown represents total tank farm capacity in thousands of barrels (includes Refining Logistics tanks). (4) Renewal terms on our agreements include multiple 2 to five year terms for transportation services agreements, 1 additional five year term for our terminal services agreement, various renewal terms ranging from zero to 10 years for our cavern storage services agreements, various renewal terms ranging from 1 to five years for our tank farm storage services agreements, 2 additional five year terms for our marine transportation services agreement and 1 additional five year term for our Fuels Distribution Services Agreement. These renewals are automatic, unless terminated by either party. Under all of our transportation services agreements, except for our marine agreement, if MPC fails to transport its minimum throughput volumes during any quarter, then MPC will pay us a deficiency payment equal to the volume of the deficiency multiplied by the tariff rate then in effect (the Quarterly Deficiency Payment ). Under these transportation services agreements, the amount of any Quarterly Deficiency Payment paid by MPC may be applied as a credit for any volumes transported on the applicable pipeline in excess of MPC minimum volume commitment during any of the succeeding four or eight quarters, after which time any unused credits will expire. Upon the expiration or termination of a transportation services agreement, MPC will have the opportunity to apply any such remaining credit amounts until the completion of any such four quarter or eight quarter period, as applicable. Remaining credits may be used against any volumes shipped by MPC on the applicable pipelines, without regard to minimum volume commitments that may have been in place during the term of the agreement. Under our terminal services agreement, if MPC fails to meet its minimum volume commitment during any quarter, then MPC will pay us a deficiency payment equal to the volume of the deficiency multiplied by the contractual fee then in effect. 12 Table of Contents Under the Fuels Distribution Services Agreement, MPC pays MPLX a tiered monthly fee based on the volume of MPC products sold by MPLX each month, subject to a maximum annual volume. MPLX has agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell not less than a minimum quarterly volume of MPC products during each calendar quarter. If MPLX sells less than the minimum quarterly volume of MPC products during any calendar quarter despite its commercially reasonable efforts, MPC will pay MPLX a deficiency payment equal to the volume deficiency multiplied by the applicable tiered fee. The dollar amount of actual sales volume of MPC products that exceeds the minimum quarterly volume (an Excess Sale ) for a particular quarter will be applied as a credit, on a first in first out basis, against any future deficiency payment owed by MPC to MPLX during the four calendar quarters immediately following the calendar quarter in which the Excess Sale occurs. MPC obligations under these agreements will not terminate if MPC no longer controls our general partner. Pipeline Operating Agreements with MPC We operate various pipelines owned by MPC under operating services agreements. Under these operating services agreements, we receive an operating fee for operating the assets, which include certain MPC wholly owned or partially owned crude oil and refined product pipelines, and for providing various operational services with respect to those assets. We are generally reimbursed for all direct and indirect costs associated with operating the assets and providing such operational services. These agreements vary in length and automatically renew with most agreements being indexed for inflation. Pipeline Operating Agreements with Third Parties We maintain and operate four joint interest pipelines including Capline, Centennial, Lou Lex and Muskegon. We receive an operating fee for each of these pipelines, which is subject to adjustment for inflation. In addition, we are reimbursed for specific costs associated with operating each pipeline. The length and renewals terms for each agreement vary. Terminal Services Agreements with Third Parties We have multiple terminal services agreements with third parties under which we provide use of pipelines and tank storage, and provide services, facilities and other infrastructure related to the receipt, storage, throughput, blending and delivery of commodities. Generally, these agreements are subject to prepaid throughput volumes under which we agree to handle a certain amount of product throughput each month in exchange for a predetermined fixed fee, with any excess throughput or ancillary services subject to additional charges. Management Services Agreement with MPC MPLX has a management services agreement with MPC under which it provides management services to assist MPC in the oversight and management of the marine business. MPLX receives a fixed annual fee for providing the required management services. This fee is adjusted annually on the anniversary of the contract for inflation and any changes in the scope of the management services provided. This agreement is set to expire on January 1, 2021 and automatically renews for 2 additional renewal terms of five years each unless terminated by either party. Other Agreements with MPC We have an omnibus agreement with MPC that addresses our payment of a fixed annual fee to MPC for the provision of executive management services by certain executive officers of our general partner and our reimbursement to MPC for the provision of certain services to us, as well as MPC indemnification of us for certain matters, including certain environmental, title and tax matters. In addition, we will indemnify MPC for certain matters under this agreement. We also have various employee services agreements under which we reimburse MPC for the provision of certain operational and management services to us. All of the employees that conduct our business are directly employed by affiliates of our general partner. 13 Table of Contents OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH MPC 1 of our competitive strengths is our strategic relationship with MPC, which, with its recent acquisition of Andeavor effective October 1, 2018, is the largest crude oil refiner in the United States in terms of refining capacity. MPC owns and operates 16 refineries in the West Coast, Gulf Coast and Mid Continent regions of the United States and distributes refined products through transportation, storage, distribution and marketing services provided by its midstream segment. MPC midstream segment consists of both MPLX and ANDX, the latter of which was acquired through the Andeavor acquisition. MPLX, through its fuels distribution services, distributes refined products under the Marathon brand through an extensive ne2rk of retail locations owned or operated by independent entrepreneurs, and through company owned and operated convenience stores across the United States, including under the Speedway brand. MPC retains a significant interest in us through its non economic ownership of our general partner and holding approximately 64 percent of the outstanding common units of MPLX as of December 31, 2018 . We believe MPC will promote and support the successful execution of our business strategies given its significant interest in us and its stated intention to grow its midstream business. This was demonstrated by the completion of the dropdowns of MLP qualifying assets and services in 2017 and 2018. OUR G&P CONTRACTS WITH THIRD PARTIES The majority of our revenues in the G&P segment are generated from natural gas gathering, transportation and processing; NGL gathering, transportation, fractionation, exchange, marketing and storage; and crude oil gathering and transportation. MPLX enters into a variety of contract types including fee based, percent of proceeds, keep whole and purchase arrangements in order to generate service revenue and product sales. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 2 for a further description of these different types of arrangements. In many cases, MPLX provides services under contracts that contain a combination of more than 1 of the arrangements described above. The terms of MPLX contracts vary based on gas quality conditions, the competitive environment when the contracts are signed and customer requirements. In addition, minimum volume commitments may create contract liabilities or deferred credits if current period payments can be used for future services. Breakage is estimated and recognized into service revenue in instances where it is probable the customer will not use the credit in future periods. MPLX contract mix and exposure to natural gas and NGL prices may change as a result of changes in producer preferences, MPLX expansion in regions where some types of contracts are more common and other market factors, including current market and financial conditions which have increased the risk of volatility in oil, natural gas and NGL prices. Any change in mix may influence our long term financial results. COMPETITION Within our L&S segment, as a result of our contractual relationship with MPC under our transportation and storage services agreements, our terminal services agreement, and our physical asset connections to MPC refineries and terminals, we believe that MPC will continue to utilize our assets for transportation, storage, distribution and marketing services. If MPC customers reduced their purchases of products from MPC due to the increased availability of less expensive products from other suppliers or for other reasons, MPC may ship only the minimum volumes (or pay the shortfall payment if it does not ship the minimum volumes), which would cause a decrease in our revenues. MPC competes with integrated petroleum companies, which have their own crude oil supplies and distribution and marketing systems, as well as with independent refiners, many of which also have their own distribution and marketing systems. MPC also competes with other suppliers that purchase refined products for resale. Competition in any particular geographic area is affected significantly by the volume of products produced by refineries in that area and by the availability of products and the cost of transportation to that area from distant refineries. In our G&P segment, we face competition for natural gas gathering and in obtaining natural gas supplies for our processing and related services; in obtaining unprocessed NGLs for gathering and fractionation; and in marketing our products and services. Competition for natural gas supplies is based primarily on the location of gas gathering systems and gas processing plants, operating efficiency and reliability, and the ability to obtain a satisfactory price for products recovered. Competitive factors affecting our fractionation services include availability of capacity, proximity to supply and industry marketing centers, and cost efficiency and reliability of service. Competition for customers to purchase our natural gas and NGLs is based primarily on price, delivery capabilities, flexibility and maintenance of high quality customer relationships. 14 Table of Contents Our competitors include natural gas midstream providers, of varying financial resources and experience, that gather, transport, process, fractionate, store and market natural gas and NGLs; major integrated oil companies and refineries; independent exploration and production companies; interstate and intrastate pipelines; and other marine and land based transporters of natural gas and NGLs. Some of our competitors operate as MLPs or are owned by infrastructure funds and may enjoy a cost of capital comparable to and, in some cases, lower than ours. Other competitors, such as major oil and gas and pipeline companies, have capital resources and contracted supplies of natural gas substantially greater than ours. Smaller local distributors may enjoy a marketing advantage in their immediate service areas. We believe that our customer focus, demonstrated by our ability to offer an integrated package of services and our flexibility in considering various types of contractual arrangements, allows us to compete more effectively. This includes having access to both NGL and natural gas markets to allow for flexibility in our gathering and processing in addition to having critical connections to a strong sponsor and key market outlets for NGLs and natural gas. In the Marcellus and Utica regions, our early entrance in the liquids rich corridors of the Marcellus and Utica shale plays through our strategic gathering and processing agreements with key producers enhances our competitive position to participate in the further development of these resource plays. In the Southern Appalachia region, our operational experience of more than 20 years as the largest processor and fractionator and our existing presence in the Appalachian Basin provide a significant competitive advantage. In the Southwest region, our major gathering systems are located primarily in the heart of shale plays with significant long term growth opportunities and provide producers with low pressure and fuel efficient service, which differentiates us from many competing gathering systems in those areas. The strategic location of our assets, including those connected to MPC, and the long term nature of many of our contracts also provide a significant competitive advantage. INSURANCE Our assets may experience physical damage as a result of an accident or natural disaster. These hazards can also cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and business interruption. We are insured under MPC and other third party insurance policies. The MPC policies are subject to shared deductibles. SEASONALITY The volume of crude oil and refined products transported and stored utilizing our assets is directly affected by the level of supply and demand for crude oil and refined products in the markets served directly or indirectly by our assets. Many effects of seasonality on the L&S segment revenues will be mitigated through the use of our fee based transportation and storage services agreements with MPC that include minimum volume commitments. Our G&P segment can be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the demand for natural gas and NGLs and the related fluctuations in commodity prices caused by various factors including variations in weather patterns from year to year. However, we manage the seasonality impact through the execution of our marketing strategy. We have access to up to 0.8 million barrels of propane storage capacity in the Southern Appalachia region provided by an arrangement with a third party which provides us with flexibility to manage the seasonality impact. REGULATORY MATTERS Our operations are subject to extensive regulations. The failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or to obtain, maintain and comply with requisite permits and authorizations can result in substantial penalties and other costs to MPLX. The regulatory burden on our operations increases our cost of doing business and, consequently, affects our profitability. However, we do not believe that we are affected in a significantly different manner by these laws and regulations than are our competitors. The following is a summary of some of the environmental health and safety laws and regulations to which our operations are subject. 15 Table of Contents Pipeline Regulations Common Carrier Liquids Pipeline Operations. We have liquids pipelines that are common carriers subject to regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. FERC regulates interstate transportation on liquids pipelines under the Interstate Commerce Act ( ICA ), Energy Policy Act of 1992 ( EPAct 1992 ) and the rules and regulations promulgated under those laws. The ICA and its implementing regulations require that tariff rates for interstate pipelines that transport crude oil, NGLs (including purity ethane) and refined petroleum products (collectively referred to as petroleum pipelines ), be just and reasonable and must not be unduly discriminatory or confer any undue preference upon any shipper. The ICA requires that interstate petroleum pipeline transportation rates and terms and conditions of service be filed with the governing agency, which is FERC, and FERC regulations require the rate and rules and regulations tariffs to be publicly posted on the company website. Under the ICA, persons with a substantial economic interest in a petroleum pipeline rate or service may challenge that rate or service before FERC. FERC is authorized to investigate such charges and may suspend the effectiveness of a newly filed rate or service for up to seven months. A successful protest to a new rate or service could result in a petroleum pipeline paying refunds, together with interest, for the period that the rate or service was in effect. A successful protest could also result in FERC disallowing the rate or service. A successful complaint to an existing rate or service could result in a petroleum pipeline paying reparations, together with interest, for the period beginning 2 years prior to the date of the complaint until the just and reasonable rate or service was established. FERC may also investigate, upon complaint, protest, or on its own motion, newly proposed rates and terms of service, existing rates and related rules, and may order a pipeline to change them prospectively or may bar a pipeline from implementing the proposed new or changed rates or terms of service. EPAct 1992 deemed certain interstate petroleum pipeline rates then in effect to be just and reasonable under the ICA. These rates are commonly referred to as grandfathered rates. Our rates in effect for the 365 day period ending on the date of the passage of EPAct 1992 for interstate transportation service were deemed just and reasonable and therefore are grandfathered. Subsequent changes to those rates are not grandfathered. New rates have since been established after EPAct 1992 for certain pipelines, and the rates for certain of our products pipelines have subsequently been approved as market based rates. EPAct 1992 required FERC to establish a simplified and generally applicable ratemaking methodology for interstate petroleum pipelines. As a result, FERC adopted an indexed rate methodology which, as currently in effect, allows petroleum pipelines to change their rates within prescribed ceiling levels that are tied to annual changes in the PPI FG. FERC indexing methodology is subject to review every five years. During the five year period commencing July 1, 2016 and ending June 30, 2021, petroleum pipelines charging indexed rates are permitted to adjust their indexed ceilings annually by PPI plus an adder that is currently set at 123 percent and is reviewed every five years. The current adder will be in effect until June 30, 2021 or upon a formal rulemaking by FERC. The indexing methodology is applicable to existing rates, including grandfathered rates, with the exclusion of market based rates and settlement rates (unless permitted under the settlement). A pipeline is not required to raise its rates up to the index ceiling, but it is permitted to do so, and rate increases made under the index are presumed to be just and reasonable unless a protesting party can demonstrate that the portion of the rate increase resulting from application of the index is substantially in excess of the pipeline costs. However, FERC is currently evaluating how indexed adjustments to rates can be challenged as well as how pipelines must demonstrate their annual costs and incomes. Therefore, we cannot guarantee FERC will not make changes to its current policy regarding challenges in the future. Under the indexing rate methodology, in any year in which the index is negative, a pipeline must lower the rate ceiling and file to lower their rates if those rates would otherwise be above the rate ceiling, unless the pipeline makes a filing attesting that all shippers that pay the rate have approved the pipeline not lowering the rate or the pipeline can demonstrate substantial divergence between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rate resulting from application of the index. While petroleum pipelines often use the indexing methodology to change their rates, petroleum pipelines may elect to support proposed rates by using other methodologies such as cost of service ratemaking, market based rates and settlement rates. A pipeline can follow a cost of service approach when seeking to increase its rates above the rate ceiling provided that the pipeline can establish that there is a substantial divergence between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rate resulting from application of the index. A pipeline can charge market based rates if it establishes that it lacks significant market power in the affected markets. In addition, a pipeline can establish rates under settlement if agreed upon by all current shippers. We have used index rates, settlement rates and market based rates to change the rates for our different FERC regulated petroleum pipelines. FERC issued a policy statement in May 2005 stating that it would permit interstate petroleum pipelines, among others, to include an income tax allowance in cost of service rates to reflect actual or potential tax liability attributable to a regulated entity operating income, regardless of the form of ownership. Under FERC 2005 policy, a tax pass through entity seeking such an income tax allowance must establish that its partners or members have an actual or potential income tax liability on the regulated entity income. FERC 2005 income tax policy was the subject of various appeals by shippers, before FERC and the 16 Table of Contents courts, and United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued a ruling that remanded a case related to pass through entities and the income tax allowance back to FERC for further review and consideration. In response, FERC issued a Revised Policy Statement on the Treatment of Income Taxes on March 15, 2018 indicating, among other things, that interstate petroleum pipelines held by master limited partnerships would no longer be allowed to recover an income tax allowance in cost of service rates. We cannot guarantee that FERC or the courts will not make changes to the policy in the future. Intrastate services provided by certain of our liquids pipelines are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities. Much of the state regulation is complaint based, both as to rates and priority of access. The state regulators could limit our ability to increase our rates or to set rates based on our costs or could order us to reduce our rates and could require the payment of refunds to shippers. FERC and state regulatory agencies generally have not investigated rates on their own initiative when those rates are not the subject of a protest or a complaint by a shipper. MPC has agreed not to contest our tariff rates for the term of our transportation and storage services agreements with MPC, but we do not have any of these types of agreements with third parties. FERC or a state commission could investigate our rates on its own initiative or at the urging of a third party if the third party is either a current shipper or is able to show that it has a substantial economic interest in our tariff rate level. If our rate levels were investigated, the inquiry could result in a comparison of our rates to those charged by others or to an investigation of our costs. If FERC or a state commission were to determine that our rates were or had become unjust and unreasonable, we could be ordered to reduce rates prospectively and pay refunds and or reparations to shippers. FERC Regulated Natural Gas Pipelines. Our natural gas pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Specifically, we have FERC gas tariffs on file for MarkWest New Mexico, L.L.C. and MarkWest Pi1er, L.L.C. ( MarkWest Pi1er ), with respect to our Hobbs Pipeline and the Arkoma Connector Pipeline. Additionally, we have ownership interests in joint ventures with FERC gas tariffs on file. Under the Natural Gas Act ( NGA ), FERC has authority to regulate natural gas companies that provide natural gas pipeline transportation services in interstate commerce. FERC authority to regulate those services includes the rates charged for the services, terms and conditions of service, certification and construction of new facilities, the extension or abandonment of services and facilities, the maintenance of accounts and records, the acquisition and disposition of facilities, the initiation and discontinuation of services and various other matters. Natural gas companies may not charge rates that have been determined to be unjust and unreasonable, or unduly discriminatory by FERC. In addition, FERC prohibits FERC regulated natural gas companies from unduly preferring, or unduly discriminating against, any person with respect to pipeline rates or terms and conditions of service or other matters. The rates and terms and conditions for the Hobbs Pipeline and the Arkoma Connector Pipeline can be found in their respective FERC approved tariffs and in negotiated rate agreements entered into under those tariffs. Pursuant to FERC jurisdiction, existing rates and or other tariff provisions may be challenged (e.g., by complaint) and rate increases proposed by the pipeline or other tariff changes may be challenged (e.g., by protest). We also cannot be assured that FERC will continue to pursue its approach of pro competitive policies as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules, rights of access, capacity and other issues that impact natural gas facilities. Any successful complaint or protest related to our facilities could have an adverse impact on our revenues. Energy Policy Act of 2005. On August 8, 2005, President Bush signed into law the Domenici Barton Energy Policy Act of 2005 ( 2005 EPAct ). Under the 2005 EPAct, FERC may impose civil penalties for violations of statutory and regulatory requirements. The 2005 EPAct also amends the NGA to add an anti market manipulation provision, which makes it unlawful for any entity to engage in prohibited behavior in contravention of rules and regulations to be prescribed by FERC. FERC issued Order No. 670 to implement the anti market manipulation provision of the 2005 EPAct. This order makes it unlawful for gas pipelines and storage companies that provide interstate services to (i) directly or indirectly, use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC; (ii) make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or (iii) engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. The anti market manipulation rule and enhanced civil penalty authority reflect an expansion of FERC enforcement authority. Standards of Conduct. FERC has adopted affiliate standards of conduct applicable to interstate natural gas pipelines and certain other regulated entities, defined as Transmission Providers. Under these rules, a Transmission Provider becomes subject to the standards of conduct if it provides service to affiliates that engage in marketing functions (as defined in the standards). If a 17 Table of Contents Transmission Provider is subject to the standards of conduct, the Transmission Provider transmission function employees (including the transmission function employees of any of its affiliates) must function independently from the Transmission Provider marketing function employees (including the marketing function employees of any of its affiliates). The Transmission Provider must also comply with certain posting and other requirements. Gas Electric Coordination. In 2015, FERC issued Order 587 W and adopted new standards designed to improve coordination between the gas and electric industries. Among other things, the new standards revise the nomination timelines used by interstate natural gas pipelines. Interstate natural gas pipelines were required to implement the new standards in 2016. FERC continues to evaluate other measures to improve coordination between the gas and electric industries, and the adoption of any such measures may impact FERC regulation of jurisdictional natural gas pipelines. Intrastate Natural Gas Pipeline Regulation. Some of our intrastate gas pipeline facilities are subject to various state laws and regulations that affect the rates we charge and terms of service. Although state regulation is typically less 1rous than FERC, state regulation typically requires pipelines to charge just and reasonable rates and to provide service on a non discriminatory basis. The rates and service of an intrastate pipeline generally are subject to challenge by complaint. Additionally, FERC has adopted certain regulations and reporting requirements applicable to intrastate natural gas pipelines (and Hinshaw natural gas pipelines) that provide certain interstate services subject to FERC jurisdiction. We are subject to such regulations and reporting requirements to the extent that any of our intrastate pipelines provide, or are found to provide, such interstate services. Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas industry periodically arise before Congress, FERC and the courts. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of these or the above regulatory changes to our natural gas operations. We do not believe that we would be affected by any such action materially differently than other midstream natural gas companies with whom we compete. Natural Gas Gathering Pipeline Regulation. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts natural gas gathering facilities from the jurisdiction of FERC if the primary function of the facilities is gathering natural gas. There is, however, no bright line test for determining the jurisdictional status of pipeline facilities. We own a number of facilities that we believe establish the pipeline status as a gatherer not subject to FERC jurisdiction. The distinction between FERC regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of litigation from time to time, so we cannot provide assurance that FERC will not at some point assert that these facilities are within its jurisdiction or that such an assertion would not adversely affect our results of operations and revenues. In such a case, we would possibly be required to file a tariff with FERC, provide a cost justification for the transportation charge and obtain certificate(s) of public convenience and necessity for the FERC regulated pipelines, and comply with additional FERC requirements. In the states in which we operate, regulation of gathering facilities and intrastate pipeline facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, open access, non discriminatory take requirement and complaint based rate regulation. For example, some of our natural gas gathering facilities are subject to state ratable take and common purchaser statutes and regulations. Ratable take statutes and regulations generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes and regulations generally require gatherers to purchase gas without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes are designed to prohibit discrimination in favor of 1 producer over another producer or 1 source of supply over another source of supply. Although state regulation is typically less 1rous than at FERC, these statutes and regulations have the effect of restricting our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or gather natural gas. Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels now that FERC has taken a less stringent approach to regulation of the gathering activities of interstate pipeline transmission companies and a number of such companies have transferred gathering facilities to unregulated affiliates. Our gathering operations could be adversely affected should they be subject in the future to the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services or regulated as a public utility. Our gathering operations also may be or become subject to safety and operational regulations and permitting requirements relating to the design, siting, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of gathering facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered or adopted from time to time. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on our operations, but the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. Currently, PHMSA is evaluating possible changes to the scope and applicability of 49 Code of Federal Regulations ( C.F.R. ) Part 192, which governs construction standards and operation of certain natural gas gathering pipelines. The changes that have been proposed include, but are not limited to, more stringent construction standards for remote facilities, as well as additional record keeping requirements. Depending upon the nature of the final rule making, those could have an impact upon MPLX LP 18 Table of Contents operations. We do not anticipate that we would be impacted by these regulatory initiatives to any greater degree than other similarly situated competitors. Natural Gas Processing. Our natural gas processing operations are not presently subject to FERC or state rate regulation. There can be no assurance that our processing operations will continue to be exempt from rate regulation in the future. In addition, although the processing facilities may not be directly related, other laws and regulations may affect the availability of natural gas for processing, such as state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowances from gas wells, which could impact our processing business. NGL Pipelines. We have constructed various NGL product pipelines to transport NGL products, some of which are regulated by FERC, and we may elect to construct additional such pipelines in the future that may be subject to these same regulatory requirements. Pipelines providing transportation of NGLs in interstate commerce are subject to the same regulatory requirements as common carrier petroleum pipelines. See Common Carrier Liquids Pipeline Operations above. We have several NGL pipelines that carry NGLs owned by us between our processing and fractionation facilities that cross state lines. We do not have FERC tariffs on file for these pipelines because we believe they are not subject to FERC requirements or that they would otherwise meet the qualifications for a waiver from FERC filing and reporting requirements. We cannot, however, provide assurance that FERC will not, at some point, either at the request of other entities or on its own initiative, assert that some or all of these pipelines are subject to FERC requirements for interstate petroleum pipelines and not exempt from its filing and reporting requirements. We also cannot provide assurance that such an assertion would not adversely affect our results of operations. In the event FERC were to determine that these NGL pipelines are subject to FERC requirements for common carrier pipelines or otherwise would not qualify for a waiver from FERC applicable regulatory requirements, we would likely be required to file a tariff with FERC for the pipelines, provide a cost justification for their transportation rates, and provide service to all potential shippers without undue discrimination, and we may also be subject to fines, penalties or other sanctions. Our NGL pipelines are also subject to safety regulation by the DOT under 49 C.F.R. Part 195 for operators of hazardous liquid pipelines. Currently, PHMSA plans to move forward with final rulemaking on possible changes to the scope and applicability of 49 C.F.R. Part 195, including, among other things, expansion of reporting obligations, additional inspection requirements, emergency order authority, expansion of integrity management principles and expansion of the use of leak detection systems. These changes will likely be implemented in 2019 and could have an impact upon MPLX LP and other pipeline operators. Our NGL pipelines and operations may also be or become subject to state public utility or related jurisdiction which could impose additional safety and operational regulations relating to the design, siting, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of NGL gathering facilities. Propane Regulation. National Fire Protection Association Pamphlets No. 54 and No. 58, which establish rules and procedures governing the safe handling of propane or comparable regulations, have been adopted as the industry standard in all of the states in which we operate. In some states these laws are administered by state agencies and in others they are administered on a municipal level. With respect to the transportation of propane by truck, we are subject to regulations promulgated under the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act. These regulations cover the transportation of hazardous materials and are administered by the DOT. We conduct ongoing training programs to help ensure that our operations comply with applicable regulations. We maintain various permits that are necessary to operate our facilities, some of which may be material to our propane operations. We believe that the procedures currently in effect at all of our facilities for the handling, storage and distribution of propane are consistent with industry standards and comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations. Marine Transportation . Our marine transportation business is subject to regulation by the USCG, federal laws, including the J1s Act, state laws and certain international conventions, as well as numerous environmental regulations. The majority of our vessels are subject to inspection by the USCG and carry certificates of inspection. The crews employed aboard the vessels are licensed or certified by the USCG. We are required by various governmental agencies to obtain licenses, certificates and permits for our vessels. Our marine transportation business competes principally in markets subject to the J1s Act, a federal cabotage law that restricts domestic marine transportation in the United States to vessels built and registered in the United States, and manned and owned by United States citizens. We presently meet all of the requirements of the J1s Act for our vessels. The loss of J1s Act status could have a significant negative effect on us. The requirements that our vessels be United States built and manned by United States citizens, the crewing requirements and material requirements of the USCG, and the application of United States labor and tax laws increases the cost of United States flag vessels when compared with comparable foreign flag vessels. Our marine transportation business could be adversely affected if the J1s Act were to be modified so as to permit foreign competition that is not subject to the same United States government imposed burdens. Since the events of September 11, 2001, the United States government has taken steps to increase security of United States ports, coastal waters and inland 19 Table of Contents waterways. We believe that it is unlikely that the current cabotage provisions of the J1s Act would be modified or eliminated in the foreseeable future. The Secretary of Homeland Security is vested with the authority and discretion to waive the J1s Act to such extent and upon such terms as the Secretary may prescribe whenever the Secretary deems that such action is necessary in the interest of national defense. For example, the Secretary has waived the J1s Act generally or with respect to the transportation of certain petroleum products for limited periods of time and in limited areas following the occurrence of certain natural disasters such as hurricanes. Waivers of the J1s Act, whether in response to natural disasters or otherwise, could result in increased competition from foreign tank vessel operators, which could negatively impact our marine transportation business. Pipeline Interconnections. 1 or more of our plants include pipeline interconnections to, or incidental gathering pipelines that connect the plants to, interstate pipelines. These pipeline interconnections are an integral part of our facilities and are not currently being used, nor can they be used in the future, by any third party due to their origin points at our proprietary facilities. Therefore, we believe these pipeline interconnections are part of our plant facilities and are not subject to the jurisdiction of FERC. In the event that FERC were to determine that these pipeline interconnections were subject to its jurisdiction, we believe the pipelines would qualify for a waiver from most FERC reporting and filing requirements. In the event that FERC were to determine that the pipeline interconnections did not qualify for such waivers, we would likely be required to file a tariff with FERC for the pipeline interconnections, provide a cost justification for their transportation rates and provide service to all potential shippers without undue discrimination. In such event, we may experience increased operating costs and reduced revenues. Security. Certain of our facilities have been preliminarily classified as subject to the Department of Homeland Security Chemical Facility Anti Terrorism Standards. In addition, we have several facilities that are subject to the United States Coast Guard Maritime Transportation Security Act, and a number of other facilities that are subject to the Transportation Security Administration Pipeline Security Guidelines and are designated as Critical Facilities. The Transportation Security Administration Security Guidelines are subject to change without formal regulatory proposal and review. We have an internal inspection program designed to monitor and ensure compliance with all of these requirements. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations regarding the security of our facilities. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION General Our processing and fractionation plants, storage facilities, pipelines and associated facilities are subject to multiple obligations and potential liabilities under a variety of federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. Such environmental laws and regulations may affect many aspects of our present and future operations, including for example, requiring the acquisition of permits or other approvals to conduct regulated activities that may impose burdensome conditions or potentially cause delays, restricting the manner in which we handle or dispose of our wastes, limiting or prohibiting construction or other activities in environmentally sensitive areas such as wetlands or areas inhabited by threatened or endangered species, requiring us to incur capital costs to construct, maintain and or upgrade processes, equipment and or facilities, restricting the locations in which we may construct our compressor stations and other facilities and or requiring the relocation of existing stations and facilities, and requiring remedial actions to mitigate any pollution that might be caused by our operations or attributable to former operations. Spills, releases or other incidents may occur in connection with our active operations or as a result of events outside of our reasonable control, which incidents may result in non compliance with such laws and regulations. Any failure to comply with these legal requirements may expose us to the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial or corrective actions and the issuance of orders enjoining or limiting some or all of our operations. We believe that our operations and facilities are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and the cost of continued compliance with such laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We cannot assure, however, that existing environmental laws and regulations will not be reinterpreted or revised or that new environmental laws and regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. Generally speaking, the trend in environmental law is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may be perceived to adversely affect the environment, which may cause significant delays in obtaining permitting approvals for our facilities, result in the denial of our permitting applications, or cause us to become involved in time consuming and costly litigation. Thus, there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for compliance with environmental laws and regulations, permits and permitting requirements or remedial actions pursuant to such laws and regulations, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. Revised or additional environmental requirements may result in increased compliance and mitigation costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those 20 Table of Contents costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Such revised or additional environmental requirements may also result in substantially increased costs and material delays in the construction of new facilities or expansion of our existing facilities, which may materially impact our ability to meet our construction obligations with our producer customers. Under the omnibus agreement, MPC has agreed to indemnify us for all known and certain unknown environmental liabilities that are associated with the ownership or operation of our assets that we acquired from MPC and due to occurrences on or before the closing of the Initial Offering. Indemnification for any unknown environmental liabilities will be limited to liabilities due to occurrences on or before the closing of the Initial Offering and identified prior to the fifth anniversary of the closing of the Initial Offering, and will be subject to an aggregate deductible of $500,000 before we are entitled to indemnification for losses incurred. Any other liabilities for which MPC has agreed to indemnify us are not subject to a deductible before we are entitled to indemnification. There is no limit on the amount for which MPC has agreed to indemnify us under the omnibus agreement once we meet the deductible, if applicable. Neither we nor our general partner have any contractual obligation to investigate or identify any such unknown environmental liabilities. We have agreed to indemnify MPC for events and conditions associated with the ownership or operation of our assets due to occurrences after the closing of the Initial Offering and for environmental liabilities associated with or arising from our ownership or operation of the assets on or after the closing of the Initial Offering, in each case, to the extent MPC is not required to indemnify us for such liabilities. MPLX Pipe Line Holdings LLC ( Pipe Line Holdings ), has agreed to indemnify MPC for events and conditions associated with the operations of the Pipe Line Holdings assets that occur after the closing of the Initial Offering. Liabilities for which we and Pipe Line Holdings have agreed to indemnify MPC pursuant to the omnibus agreement are not subject to a deductible before MPC is entitled to indemnification. There is no limit on the amount for which we or Pipe Line Holdings has agreed to indemnify MPC under the omnibus agreement. Hazardous Substances and Wastes A comprehensive framework of environmental laws and regulations governs our operations as they relate to the possible release of hazardous substances or non hazardous or hazardous wastes into soils, groundwater and surface water and measures taken to mitigate pollution into the environment. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended ( CERCLA ), also known as the Superfund law, as well as comparable state laws, impose liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include current and prior owners or operators of a site where a release occurred and companies that transported or disposed or arranged for the transport or disposal of the hazardous substances released from the site. Under CERCLA, these persons may be subject to strict joint and several liability for the costs of removing or remediating hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for restoration costs and damages to natural resources. Additionally, neighboring landowners and other third parties can file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment. While we generate materials in the course of our operations that may be regulated as hazardous substances under CERCLA or similar state statutes, we do not believe that we have any current material liability for cleanup costs under such laws or for third party claims. We also may incur liability under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended ( RCRA ), and comparable or more stringent state statutes, which impose requirements relating to the handling and disposal of non hazardous and hazardous wastes. In the course of our operations, we generate some amount of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes. It is possible that some wastes generated by us that are currently classified as non hazardous wastes may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes, resulting in the wastes being subject to more rigorous and costly transportation, storage, treatment and disposal requirements. We currently own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, properties that have been used over the years for natural gas gathering, processing and transportation, for NGL fractionation or for the storage, gathering and transportation of crude oil. Although waste disposal practices within the NGL industry and other oil and natural gas related industries have been enhanced and improved over the years, it is possible that petroleum hydrocarbons and other non hazardous or hazardous wastes may have been disposed of by prior owners or operators on or under these various properties owned or leased by us during the operating history of those facilities. These properties and wastes disposed thereon may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under these laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including groundwater contamination, or to perform remedial operations to prevent future contamination. Ongoing Remediation and Indemnification from Third Parties The prior third party owner or operator of our Cobb, Boldman, Kenova, Kermit and Majorsville facilities, has been, or is currently involved in, certain investigatory or remedial activities with respect to the real property underlying these facilities. 21 Table of Contents The third party or, in the case of the Kermit Complex, its successor in interest, has accepted sole liability and responsibility for, and indemnifies us against those activities or any other environmental condition related to the real property prior to the effective dates of our lease or purchase of the real property that are not contributed to by us. In addition, the third party, or in the case of the Kermit Complex, its successor in interest, has agreed to perform all the required response actions at its expense in a manner that minimizes interference with our use of the properties. We understand that to date, all required actions have been or are being performed and, accordingly, we do not believe that the remediation obligation of these properties will have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. The prior third party owner and or operator of certain facilities on the real property on which our rail facility is constructed near Houston, Pennsylvania has been, or is currently involved in, investigatory or remedial activities related to acid mine drainage ( AMD ) with respect to the real property underlying these facilities. These investigatory and remedial obligations arise out of an arrangement entered into between the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and the third party, which has accepted liability and responsibility for, and indemnifies us against, any environmental liabilities associated with the AMD that are not exacerbated by us in connection with our operations. In addition, the third party has agreed to perform all of the required response actions at its expense in a manner that minimizes interference with our use of the property. We understand that to date, all actions required under these agreements have been or are being performed and, accordingly, we do not believe that the remediation obligation of these properties will have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We are also entitled to indemnification from MPC for assets we acquired from MPC in our Initial Offering, as further described above under General . In addition, from time to time, we have acquired, and we may acquire in the future, facilities from third parties or MPC that previously have been or currently are the subject of investigatory, remedial or monitoring activities relating to environmental matters. The terms of each acquisition will vary, and in some cases we may receive contractual indemnification from the prior owner or operator for some or all of the liabilities relating to such matters, and in other cases we may agree to accept some or all of such liabilities. We do not believe that the portion of any such liabilities that MPLX may bear with respect to any such properties previously acquired by MPLX will have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Water Discharges Our operations can result in the discharge of pollutants, including crude oil and refined products. Regulations under the Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 ( Clean Water Act ), Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ( OPA 90 ) and analogous state laws impose restrictions and controls on the discharge of pollutants into federal and state waters. Such discharges are prohibited, except in accord with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or the analogous state agency. Spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements under federal law and some state laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters in the event of a hydrocarbon tank spill, oil overflow, rupture or leak. For example, the Clean Water Act requires us to maintain Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure ( SPCC ) plans at many of our facilities. We maintain numerous discharge permits for facilities and vessels as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the Clean Water Act and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance efforts. Any unpermitted release of pollutants, including oil, NGLs or condensates, could result in administrative, civil and criminal penalties as well as significant remedial obligations. In addition, the Clean Water Act and analogous state law may also require individual permits or coverage under general permits for discharges of storm water from certain types of facilities, but these requirements are subject to several exemptions specifically related to oil and natural gas operations and facilities. The Clean Water Act also prohibits the discharge of dredge and fill material in regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by a permit. We conduct regular review of the applicable laws and regulations, and maintain discussions with the various federal, state and local agencies with regard to the application of those laws and regulations to our facilities, including the permitting process and categories of applicable permits for storm water or other discharges, stream crossings and wetland disturbances that may be required for the construction or operation of certain of our facilities in the various states. In addition, the transportation and storage of crude oil and refined products over and adjacent to water involves risk and subjects us to the provisions of OPA 90 and related state requirements. Among other requirements, OPA 90 requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel, a facility or a pipeline to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. Also, in case of any such release, OPA 90 requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages. OPA 90 also provides for civil penalties and imposes criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. We operate facilities at which releases of oil and hazardous substances could occur. We have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our comp1nts and facilities covered by OPA 90 and we have established SPCC plans for facilities subject to Clean Water Act SPCC requirements. 22 Table of Contents Construction or maintenance of our plants, compressor stations, pipelines, barge dock and storage facilities may impact wetlands, which are also regulated under the Clean Water Act by the EPA, the United States Army Corps of Engineers and state water quality agencies. Regulatory requirements governing wetlands (including associated mitigation projects) may result in the delay of our projects while we obtain necessary permits and may increase the cost of new projects and maintenance activities. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws. However, there is no assurance that we will not incur material increases in our operating costs or delays in the construction or expansion of our facilities because of future developments, the implementation of new laws and regulations, the reinterpretation of existing laws and regulations, or otherwise, including, for example, increased construction activities, potential inadvertent releases arising from pursuing borings for pipelines, and earth slips due to heavy rain and or other causes. Air Emissions The Clean Air Act and comparable state laws restrict the emission of air pollutants from many sources, including processing plants and compressor stations, and also impose various monitoring and reporting requirements. These laws and any implementing regulations may require us to obtain pre approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce or significantly increase air emissions, obtain and strictly comply with stringent air permit requirements, utilize specific equipment or technologies to control emissions, or aggregate 2 or more of our facilities into 1 application for permitting purposes. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with applicable air permitting and control technology requirements. However, we may be required to incur capital expenditures in the future for installation of air pollution control equipment and encounter construction or operational delays while applying for, or awaiting the review, processing and issuance of new or amended permits, and we may be required to modify certain of our operations which could increase our operating costs. For example, the EPA issued final regulations in October 2015 to revise the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for oz1 to 70 parts per billion for both the eight hour primary and secondary standards protective of public health and public welfare. In actions dated April 30, 2018, and July 25, 2018, the EPA finalized nonattainment designations for certain areas under the lower primary oz1 standard. For areas designated nonattainment, states will be required to adopt State Implementation Plans ( SIPs ) for nonattainment areas. These SIPs may include NOx and or VOC reductions that could result in increased costs to us or our customers. We cannot predict the effects of the various SIPs requirements at this time. In 2016, the EPA promulgated regulation regarding performance standards for methane emissions from new and modified oil and gas production and natural gas processing and transmission facilities, which could require additional capital expenditures, increase our operating costs or otherwise restrict our operations. In September 2018, the EPA proposed targeted improvements to the 2016 New Source Performance Standards for the oil and gas industry that are meant to streamline implementation of the rules. Additionally, the EPA finalized regulations to revise existing refinery air emissions standards, which require additional controls, lower emission standards and require ambient air monitoring. These revised refinery standards affect refineries, including MPC refineries from which we receive significant revenues. To the extent capital expenditures required to comply with new legislative and regulatory requirements have a material effect on MPC or our other customers, they could have a material effect on our business and results of operations. Climate Change As a consequence of an EPA administrative conclusion that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases ( GHGs ) into the ambient air endangers public health and welfare, the EPA adopted regulations establishing the Prevention of Significant Deterioration ( PSD ) construction and Title V operating permit programs for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that already are potential major sources of certain principal, or criteria, pollutant emissions. Although the EPA PSD and Title V permit programs are limited to large stationary sources of criteria pollutant emissions, states may seek to adopt their own permitting programs under state laws that require permit reviews of large stationary sources emitting only GHGs. If we were to become subject to Title V and PSD permitting requirements due to non GHG criteria pollutants, or if the EPA implemented more stringent permitting requirements relating to GHG emissions without regard to non GHG criteria pollutants, or if states adopt their own permitting programs that require permit reviews based on GHG emissions, we may be required to install best available control technology, to the extent such technology is available, to limit emissions of GHGs from any new or significantly modified facilities that we may seek to construct in the future. In addition, we may experience substantial delays or possible curtailment of construction or projects in connection with applying for, obtaining or maintaining preconstruction and operating permits, we may encounter limitations on the design capacities or size of facilities, and we may incur material increases in our construction and operating costs. We are monitoring GHG emissions from certain of our facilities in accordance with current GHG emissions reporting requirements in a manner that we believe is in substantial compliance with applicable reporting obligations. Also, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and it is possible that such legislation could be enacted in the future. In the absence of federal climate legislation in the United States, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade 23 Table of Contents programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emission allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements including the imposition of a carbon tax. The EPA 2016 New Source Performance Standards for the oil and gas industry are aimed at minimizing fugitive emissions and establishing methane emission standards for new and modified oil and gas production and natural gas processing and transmission facilities as part of the former Administration efforts to reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas sector by up to 45 percent from 2012 levels by 2025. This rule is currently being challenged in court by various affected states, and the EPA continues to review and consider further changes to these standards. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, oil and natural gas produced by our exploration and production customers that, in turn, could reduce the demand for our services and thus adversely affect our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Endangered Species Act and Migratory Bird Treaty Act Considerations The federal Endangered Species Act ( ESA ) and analogous state laws regulate activities that may affect endangered or threatened species, including their habitats. If protected species are located in areas where we propose to construct new gathering or transportation pipelines, processing or fractionation facilities, or other infrastructure, such work could be prohibited or delayed in certain of those locations or during certain times, when our operations could result in a taking of the species or destroy or adversely modify critical habitat that has been designated for the species. We also may be obligated to develop plans to avoid potential takings of protected species and provide mitigation to offset the effects of any unavoidable impacts, the implementation of which could materially increase our operating and capital costs. Existing laws, regulations, policies and guidance relating to protected species may also be revised or reinterpreted in a manner that further increases our construction and mitigation costs or restricts our construction activities. Additionally, construction and operational activities could result in inadvertent impact to a listed species and could result in alleged takings under the ESA, exposing MPLX to civil or criminal enforcement actions and fines or penalties. Moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2011, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service ( FWS ) is required to make a determination on listing numerous species as endangered or threatened under the ESA by completion of the agency 2017 fiscal year. For example, in April 2015, the FWS published a final rule listing the Northern Long Eared Bat as threatened under the ESA. In another example, in September 2016, the FWS announced the listing of the Eastern Massasauga rattlesnake as a threatened species under the ESA. In addition, in January 2017, FWS issued a final rule listing the rusty patched bumblebee as an endangered species effective in February 2017. All of these species, along with the other endangered species such as the Indiana Bat and American Burying Beetle, are in areas in which we operate. The listing of these or other species as threatened or endangered in areas where we conduct operations or plan to construct pipelines or facilities may cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in delays in, or prohibit, the construction of our facilities or limit our customer exploration and production activities, which could have an adverse impact on demand for our midstream operations. The Migratory Bird Treaty Act implements various treaties and conventions between the United States and certain other nations for the protection of migratory birds. In accordance with this law, the taking, killing or possessing of migratory birds covered under this act is unlawful without authorization. If there is the potential to adversely affect migratory birds as a result of our operations or construction activities, we may be required to seek authorization to conduct those operations or construction activities, which may result in specified operating or construction restrictions on a temporary, seasonal, or permanent basis in affected areas and thus have an adverse impact on our ability to provide timely gathering, processing or fractionation services to our exploration and production customers. Safety Matters Our assets are subject to increasingly strict safety laws and regulations. The transportation and storage of natural gas and crude oil and refined products involve a risk that hazardous liquids may be released into the environment, potentially causing harm to the public or the environment. In turn, such incidents may result in substantial expenditures for response actions, significant government penalties, liability to government agencies for natural resources damages and significant business interruption. The DOT has adopted safety regulations with respect to the design, construction, operation, maintenance, inspection and management of our pipeline assets. These regulations contain requirements for the development and implementation of pipeline integrity management programs, which include the inspection and testing of pipelines and the correction of anomalies. These regulations also require that pipeline operation and maintenance personnel meet certain qualifications and that pipeline operators develop comprehensive spill response plans. 24 Table of Contents Regulation We are subject to regulation by the DOT under the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979, also known as the HLPSA. The HLPSA delegated to the DOT the authority to develop, prescribe and enforce minimum federal safety standards for the transportation of hazardous liquids by pipeline. Congress also enacted the Pipeline Safety Act of 1992, also known as the PSA, which added the environment to the list of statutory factors that must be considered in establishing safety standards for hazardous liquid pipelines, required regulations be issued to define the term gathering line and establish safety standards for certain regulated gathering lines, and mandated that regulations be issued to establish criteria for operators to use in identifying and inspecting pipelines located in High Consequence Areas ( HCAs ), defined as those areas that are unusually sensitive to environmental damage, that cross a navigable waterway, or that have a high population density. In 1996, Congress enacted the Accountable Pipeline Safety and Partnership Act, also known as the APSPA, which limited the operator identification requirement mandate to pipelines that cross a waterway where a substantial likelihood of commercial navigation exists, required that certain areas where a pipeline rupture would likely cause permanent or long term environmental damage be considered in determining whether an area is unusually sensitive to environmental damage, and mandated that regulations be issued for the qualification and testing of certain pipeline personnel. In the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement, and Safety Act of 2006, also known as the PIPES Act, Congress required mandatory inspections for certain U.S. crude oil and natural gas transmission pipelines in HCAs and mandated that regulations be issued for low stress hazardous liquid pipelines and pipeline control room management. We are also subject to the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011, which reauthorized funding for federal pipeline safety programs through 2015, increased penalties for safety violations, established additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines and required studies of certain safety issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements for existing pipelines. The DOT has delegated its authority under these statutes to the PHMSA, which administers compliance with these statutes and has promulgated comprehensive safety standards and regulations for the transportation of natural gas by pipeline (49 C.F.R. Part 192), as well as hazardous liquids by pipeline (49 C.F.R. Part 195), including regulations for the design and construction of new pipelines or those that have been relocated, replaced or otherwise changed (Subparts C and D of 49 C.F.R., Part 195); pressure testing of new pipelines (Subpart E of 49 C.F.R. Part 195); operation and maintenance of pipelines, including inspecting and reburying pipelines in the Gulf of Mexico and its inlets, establishing programs for public awareness and damage prevention, managing the integrity of pipelines in HCAs and managing the operation of pipeline control rooms (Subpart F of 49 C.F.R. Part 195); protecting steel pipelines from the adverse effects of internal and external corrosion (Subpart H of 49 C.F.R. Part 195); and integrity management requirements for pipelines in HCAs (49 C.F.R. 195.452). PHMSA has undertaken a number of initiatives to reevaluate its pipeline safety regulations. We do not anticipate that we would be impacted by these regulatory initiatives to any greater degree than other similarly situated competitors. Pipeline Control and Monitoring The majority of our pipelines are operated from central control rooms. These control centers operate with a SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) system equipped with computer systems designed to continuously monitor operational data. Monitored data includes pressures, temperatures, gravities, flow rates and alarm conditions. These systems include real time transient leak detection system monitors throughput and alarms if pre established operating parameters are exceeded. These control centers operate remote pumps, motors and valves associated with the receipt and delivery of products, and provide for the remote controlled shutdown of pump stations on the pipelines. These systems also include fully functional back up operations maintained and routinely operated throughout the year to ensure safe and reliable operations. We monitor the structural integrity of our pipelines through a program of periodic internal assessments using high resolution internal inspection tools, as well as hydrostatic testing and direct assessment, that conform to federal standards. We accompany these assessments with a review of the data and repair anomalies, as required, to ensure the integrity of the pipeline. We then utilize sophisticated risk algorithms and a comprehensive data integration effort to ensure that the highest risk pipelines receive the highest priority for scheduling subsequent integrity assessments. We use external coatings and impressed current cathodic protection systems to protect against external corrosion. We conduct all cathodic protection work in accordance with National Association of Corrosion Engineers standards. We continually monitor, test and record the effectiveness of these corrosion inhibiting systems. Pipeline Permitting Pipeline construction and expansion is subject to government permitting and involves numerous regulatory environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. We believe our operations are in substantial compliance with our permits. 25 Table of Contents Facility Safety At manned facilities, the workplaces associated with the processing and storage facilities and the pipelines we operate are also subject to oversight pursuant to the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, as amended ( OSHA ), as well as comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard requires that we maintain information about hazardous materials used or produced in operations, and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. We believe that we have conducted our operations in substantial compliance with OSHA requirements, including general industry standards, record keeping requirements and monitoring of occupational exposure to regulated substances. At unmanned facilities, the EPA Risk Management Planning requirements at regulated facilities are intended to protect the safety of the surrounding public. The application of these regulations, which are often unclear, can result in increased compliance expenditures. In general, we expect industry and regulatory safety standards to become stricter over time, resulting in increased compliance expenditures. While these expenditures cannot be accurately estimated at this time, we do not expect such expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, PHMSA and 1 or more state regulators have, in isolated circumstances in the past, sought to expand the scope of their regulatory inspections to include certain in plant equipment and pipelines found within NGL fractionation facilities and associated storage facilities in order to assess compliance with hazardous liquids pipeline safety requirements. If any of these actions were made broadly enforceable as part of a rule making process or codified into law, they could result in additional capital costs, possible operational delays and increased costs of operation. Product Quality Standards Refined products and other hydrocarbon based products that we transport are generally sold by us or our customers for consumption by the public. Various federal, state and local agencies have the authority to prescribe product quality specifications for products. The EPA established sulfur specifications for natural gasoline sold as certified ethanol denaturant effective January 1, 2017. The EPA has also proposed product quality specification for natural gasoline used for blendstock in ethanol flex fuel. The EPA has also established product quality specifications related to butane blending, which we perform at certain of our light products storage facilities. Changes in product quality specifications or blending requirements could reduce our throughput volumes, require us to incur additional handling costs or require capital expenditures. For example, different product specifications for different markets affect the fungibility of the products in our system and could require the construction of additional storage. In addition, changes in the product quality of the products we receive on our product pipelines could reduce or eliminate our ability to blend products. EMPLOYEES We are managed and operated by the board of directors and executive officers of MPLX GP LLC ( MPLX GP ), our general partner. Our general partner has the sole responsibility for providing the employees and other personnel necessary to conduct our operations. All of the employees that conduct our business are directly employed by affiliates of our general partner. Our general partner and its affiliates have approximately 4,500 full time employees that provide services to us under our employee services agreements. We believe that our general partner and its affiliates have a satisfactory relationship with those employees. AVAILABLE INFORMATION General information about MPLX LP and our general partner, MPLX GP, including Governance Principles, Audit Committee Charter, Conflicts Committee Charter and Certificate of Limited Partnership, can be found at www.mplx.com. In addition, our Code of Business Conduct and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers are available in this same location. MPLX LP uses its website, www.mplx.com, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information. Our Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q and Current Reports on Form 8 K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the SEC, or on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. These documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our Investor Relations office. In addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. Information contained on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10 K or other securities filings. 26 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all the other information set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K in evaluating us and our common units. Some of these risks relate principally to our business, the business and operations of MPC and the industry in which we operate, while others relate principally to tax matters, ownership of our common units and the securities markets generally. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common units could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business Our substantial debt and other financial obligations could impair our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow, and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. We have significant debt obligations, which totaled $ 139 billion as of December 31, 2018 . We may incur significant debt obligations in the future, including under our loan agreement with MPC. Our existing and future indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have, or the incurrence of such debt could otherwise result in, material adverse consequences, including We may have difficulties obtaining additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general business purposes on favorable terms, if at all, or our cost of borrowing may increase. Our funds available for operations, business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will also be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt. We may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have proportionately less debt, or we may be more vulnerable to, and have limited flexibility to respond to, competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be required to reduce our distributions, reduce or delay our business activities, investments or capital expenditures, sell assets or issue equity, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders, as well as the trading price of our common units. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facility and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance our operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities, which may, in turn, limit our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired from time to time if the fluctuations in our working capital needs are not consistent with the timing for our receipt of funds from our operations. If we fail to comply with our debt obligations and an event of default occurs, our lenders could declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable, which may trigger defaults under our other debt instruments or other contracts. Our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. A significant decrease or delay in oil and natural gas production in our areas of operation, whether due to sustained declines in oil, natural gas and NGL prices, natural declines in well production, or otherwise, may adversely affect our revenues, financial condition, and cash available for distribution. A significant portion of our operations are dependent upon production from oil and natural gas reserves and wells owned by our producer customers, which will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels and the utilization rate of our facilities, we must continually obtain new oil, natural gas, NGL and refined product supplies, which depend in part on the level of successful drilling activity near our facilities. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of our operations, the amount of reserves associated with the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, drilling costs per mcf or barrel, demand for hydrocarbons, operational challenges, access to downstream markets, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. Because of these factors, even if new oil or natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by our assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If we are 27 Table of Contents not able to obtain new supplies of oil or natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells, throughput on our pipelines and the utilization rates of our facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Decreases in energy prices can decrease drilling activity, production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. The prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control, including global and local demand, production levels, changes in interstate pipeline gas quality specifications, imports and exports, seasonality and weather conditions, economic and political conditions domestically and internationally and governmental regulations. Sustained periods of low prices could result in producers also significantly curtailing or limiting their oil and gas drilling operations which could substantially delay the production and delivery of volumes of oil, gas and NGLs to our facilities and adversely affect our revenues and cash available for distribution. This impact may also be exacerbated due to the extent of our commodity based contracts, which are more directly impacted by changes in gas and NGL prices than our fee based contracts due to frac spread exposure and may result in operating losses when natural gas becomes more expensive on a Btu equivalent basis than NGL products. In addition, our purchase and resale of gas and NGLs in the ordinary course exposes us to significant risk of volatility in gas or NGL prices due to the potential difference in the time of the purchases and sales and the potential difference in the price associated with each transaction, and direct exposure may also occur naturally as a result of our production processes. The significant volatility in natural gas, NGL and oil prices could adversely impact our unit price, thereby increasing our distribution yield and cost of capital. Such impacts could adversely impact our ability to execute our long term organic growth projects, satisfy our obligations to our customers, and make distributions to unitholders at intended levels, and may also result in non cash impairments of long lived assets or goodwill or other than temporary non cash impairments of our equity method investments. Global economic conditions may have adverse impacts on our business and financial condition and adversely impact our ability to access capital markets on acceptable terms. Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A number of economic factors, including, but not limited to, gross domestic product, consumer interest rates, government spending, consumer confidence and debt levels, retail trends, inflation, tariffs, trade agreements and foreign currency exchange rates, may generally affect our business. Recessionary economic cycles, higher unemployment rates, higher fuel and other energy costs and higher tax rates may adversely affect demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil. Also, any tightening of the capital markets could adversely impact our ability to execute our long term organic growth projects and meet our obligations to our customers and limit our ability to raise capital and, therefore, have an adverse impact on our ability to otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or react to changing economic and business conditions. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, income from operations, cash flows and our quarterly distribution on our common units. Our business plan and growth strategy may require access to new capital. An increased cost of capital could impair our ability to grow, our ability to make distributions to unitholders at our intended levels and trigger us to impair our goodwill and intangible assets. Our ability to successfully operate our business, generate sufficient cash to pay the quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders and to allow for growth of our business and the growth of our distributions is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including economic and competitive factors beyond our control, which may impair our access to new capital. If the cost of capital becomes too expensive, we may not be able to raise the necessary funds from the capital markets on satisfactory terms, if at all. We may be required to consider alternative financing strategies such as the formation of joint ventures or the sale of non strategic assets, which may not provide the necessary capital, and our ability to develop or acquire strategic and accretive assets and finance growth projects will be limited. Factors that influence our cost of capital include market conditions, including our common unit price and the resultant distribution yield. A significant decline in oil prices can impact our common unit price. When the price of our common units decreases, the resultant distribution yield increases, and our cost of capital increases accordingly. A significant drop in our unit price could also trigger an impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets. We may not have sufficient cash from operations after the establishment of cash reserves and payment of our expenses, including cost reimbursements to MPC and its affiliates, to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders. We may not have sufficient available cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units depends principally on the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things 28 Table of Contents the fees and tariff rates we charge and the margins we realize for our services and sales; the prices of, level of production of and demand for oil, natural gas, NGLs and refined products; the volumes of natural gas, crude oil, NGLs and refined products we gather, process, store, transport and fractionate; the level of our operating costs including repairs and maintenance; the relative prices of NGLs and crude oil, which impact the effectiveness of our hedging program; and prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash available for distribution may depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the amount of our operating expenses and general and administrative expenses, including cost reimbursements to MPC in respect of those expenses; our debt service requirements and other liabilities; fluctuations in our working capital needs; our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; restrictions in our joint venture agreements, revolving credit facility or other agreements governing our debt; the level and timing of capital expenditures we make, including capital expenditures incurred in connection with our enhancement projects; the cost of acquisitions, if any; and the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner in its discretion. In an effort to fund a greater portion of our organic growth with retained cash, the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner may increase in the future, which in turn may further reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. Our inability, or limited ability, to control certain aspects of management of joint venture legal entities in which we have a partial ownership interest means that we may be unable to control, and may not receive, the amount of cash we expect to be distributed to us, which could adversely affect our ability to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders. In addition, for entities where we have a noncontrolling ownership interest, or for entities that we operate but in which the noncontrolling interest owners have participative rights, we will be unable to control ongoing operational or other decisions, including the incurrence of capital expenditures that we may be required to fund, the incurrence of debt, or the pursuit of certain projects that we may want to pursue. Certain of our joint venture partners have the option to not make, or may otherwise cease making, capital contributions, so we may be required to fully fund capital or operating expenditures for the joint venture. For joint ventures we operate, we may not receive adequate reimbursement for all of the expenditures we incur to operate the joint venture. Furthermore, the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non cash Item. As a result, we may make distributions during periods when we record net losses and may not make distributions during periods when we record net income. Our expansion of existing assets and the construction of new assets will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks that could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 1 of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of, or additions to, our existing gathering, transportation, treating, processing, storage and fractionation facilities. We may also grow our business by constructing new pipelines or expanding existing pipelines by adding horsepower or pump stations or by adding additional pipelines along existing pipelines. Such construction requires the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our expectations, and involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond are control. Factors beyond our control include delays caused by third party landowners, unavailability of materials, labor disruptions, environmental constraints, financing, accidents, weather and other factors. Additionally, we are subject to numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and inflationary uncertainties, including societal sentiment regarding the development and use of carbon based fuels, political pressures and the influence of environmental or other special interest groups, as well as stringent and lengthy federal, state and local permitting, zoning, consent, or authorizations requirements, or new laws, regulations, requirements or enforcement actions, which may cause us to incur additional capital expenditures, delay, 29 Table of Contents interfere with or impair our construction activities, including by requiring the redesign of facilities, the acquisition of additional equipment, and relocations or rerouting of facilities, and subject us to additional expenses or penalties and adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to unitholders. The approval process for storage and transportation projects has become increasingly challenging, due in part to state and local concerns related to pipelines, negative public perception regarding the oil and gas industry, and concerns regarding greenhouse gas emissions downstream of pipeline operations. If we undertake these projects, we may not be able to complete them on schedule, or at all, or at the budgeted cost. We also may be required to incur additional costs and expenses in connection with the design and installation of our facilities due to their location and the surrounding terrain. We may be required to install additional facilities, incur additional capital and operating expenditures, or experience interruptions in or impairments of our operations to the extent that the facilities are not designed or installed correctly. For example, certain of our processing, fractionation and pipeline facilities are located in mountainous areas such as our Utica, Marcellus and southern Appalachian operations, which may require specially designed foundations, retaining walls and other structures or facilities. If such foundations, retaining walls or other facilities are not designed or installed correctly, do not perform as intended or fail, we may be required to incur significant capital expenditures to correct or repair the deficiencies, or may incur significant damage to or loss of facilities, and our operations may be interrupted as a result of deficiencies or failures. In addition, such deficiencies may cause damages to the surrounding environment, including slope failures, stream impacts and other natural resource damages, and we may as a result also be subject to increased operating expenses or environmental penalties and fines. In addition, certain agreements with our customers contain substantial financial penalties and or give the producer the right to repurchase certain assets and terminate their contracts with us if construction deadlines are not achieved. Any such penalty or contract termination could have a material adverse effect on our income from operations and cash available for distribution. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and we may not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project, if at all. We may not always be able to accurately estimate hydrocarbon reserves and expected production volumes; therefore, volumes we service in the future could be less than we anticipate. We work closely with our producer customers in an effort to understand hydrocarbon reserves and expected production volumes. We periodically review or have outside consultants review hydrocarbon reserve information and expected production data that is publicly available or that is provided to us by our producer customers. However, we may not be able to accurately estimate hydrocarbon reserves and production volumes expected to be delivered to us for a variety of reasons, including the unavailability of sufficiently detailed information and unanticipated changes in producers expected drilling schedules. Accordingly, we may not have accurate estimates of total reserves serviced by our assets, the anticipated life of such reserves or the expected volumes to be produced from those reserves. Furthermore, we may have only limited oil, natural gas, NGL or refined product supplies committed to any new facility prior to its construction. We may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production or satisfy anticipated market demand which does not materialize, the facilities may not operate as planned or may not be used at all. In order to attract additional oil, natural gas, NGL or refined product supplies from a customer, we may be required to order equipment and facilities, obtain rights of way or other land rights or otherwise commence construction activities for facilities that will be required to serve such customer additional supplies prior to executing agreements with the customer. If such agreements are not executed, we may be unable to recover such costs and expenses. We may also rely on estimates of proved reserves in our decision to construct new pipelines and facilities, which may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough oil, natural gas, NGLs or refined products to achieve our expected investment return or result in immediate revenue increases, which could adversely affect our operations and cash available for distribution. Alternatively, oil, natural gas, NGL or refined product supplies committed to facilities under construction may be delivered prior to completion of such facilities, or we may otherwise have unexpected increase in volumes that could adversely affect our ability to expand our facilities. In such event, we may be required to temporarily utilize third party facilities for such oil, natural gas, NGLs or refined products, which may increase our operating costs and reduce our cash available for distribution. Due to capacity, market and other constraints relating to the growth of our business, we may experience difficulties in the execution of our business plan, which may increase our costs and reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution. The successful execution of our business strategy is impacted by a variety of factors, including our ability to grow our business and satisfy our customers requirements for gathering, processing, fractionation, marketing, transportation and storage services. 30 Table of Contents Our ability to grow our business and satisfy our customers requirements may be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including the following more stringent permitting and other regulatory requirements; a limited supply of qualified fabrication and construction contractors, which could delay or increase the cost of the construction and installation of our facilities or increase the cost of operating our existing facilities; unexpected increases in the volume of oil, natural gas, NGLs and refined products being delivered to our facilities, which could adversely affect our ability to expand our facilities in a manner that is consistent with our customers production or delivery schedules; changes in, or inability to meet, downstream gas, NGL, crude oil or refined product pipeline quality specifications, which could reduce the volumes of gas, NGLs, crude oil and refined products that we receive; scheduled maintenance, unexpected outages or downtime at our facilities or at upstream or downstream third party facilities, which could reduce the volumes of oil, gas, NGLs and refined products that we receive; and market and capacity constraints affecting downstream oil, natural gas, NGL and refined products facilities, including limited gas and NGL capacity downstream of our facilities, limited railcar and NGL pipeline facilities and reduced demand or limited markets for certain NGL or refined products, which could reduce the volumes of oil, gas, NGLs and refined products that we receive and adversely affect the pricing received for NGLs. If we are unable to successfully execute our business strategy, then our operating and capital expenditures may materially increase and our revenues and cash available for distribution may be adversely affected. We engage in commodity derivative activities to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on our cash flows, but these activities may reduce our earnings, profitability and cash flows. In addition, we may not accurately predict future commodity price fluctuations, our risk management activities may impair our ability to benefit from price increases, and additional regulation of commodity derivative activities could adversely impact our ability to manage these risks. Our operations expose us to fluctuations in commodity prices. We utilize derivative financial instruments related to the future price of crude oil, natural gas and certain NGLs with the intent of reducing volatility in our cash flows due to fluctuations in commodity prices. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to our contract mix and the effectiveness and scope of our derivative activities. We have a policy to enter into derivative transactions related to only a portion of the volume of our expected production or fuel requirements that are subject to commodity price volatility and, as a result, we expect to continue to have some direct commodity price exposure. Our actual future production or fuel requirements may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to settle all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity, which could result in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. Alternatively, we may seek to amend the terms of our derivative financial instruments, including the extension of the settlement date of such instruments. Additionally, because we may use derivative financial instruments relating to the future price of crude oil to mitigate our exposure to NGL price risk, the volatility of our future cash flows and net income may increase if there is a change in the pricing relationship between crude oil and NGLs. As a result of these factors, our risk management activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the downside volatility of our cash flows and, in certain circumstances, may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our risk management activities are subject to the risks that a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument, the terms of the derivative instruments are imperfect and our risk management policies and procedures are not properly followed. For further information about our risk management policies and procedures, please read Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 17 . To the extent that we do not manage the commodity price risk relating to a position that is subject to commodity price risk and commodity prices move adversely, we could suffer losses. Such losses could be substantial and could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution. In addition, managing the commodity risk may actually reduce our opportunity to benefit from increases in the market or spot prices. As a result of the Dodd Frank Act, OTC derivatives markets and entities are subject to regulation by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the CFTC ), the SEC and other regulators. The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and 31 Table of Contents credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and exchange trading. To the extent we engage in such transactions that are or become subject to such rules in the future, we will be required to comply or to take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. Although we believe that we qualify for the end user exception to the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps to hedge our commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. Additional mandatory clearing requirements could be imposed that may impair our ability to maintain OTC hedging positions or require us to post collateral. The Dodd Frank Act and its implementing regulations, including those not yet finalized, could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that we encounter, reduce our ability to m1tize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, increase the administrative burden and regulatory risk associated with entering into certain derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less credit worthy counterparties. As a result, if we reduce our use of derivatives, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our income from operations and cash flows available for distribution. Due to an increased domestic supply of NGLs, we may be required to find alternative NGL market outlets and to rely more heavily on the export of NGLs, which may increase our operating costs or reduce the price received for NGLs and thereby reduce our cash available for distribution. Due to increased production of natural gas, particularly in shale plays, there is an increased domestic supply of NGLs, which is currently outpacing, and could continue to outpace, domestic demand. As a result, we and our producer customers may need to continue to find alternate NGL market outlets and to rely more heavily on the export of NGLs. Our ability to find alternative NGL market outlets is dependent upon a variety of factors, including the construction and installation of additional NGL transportation infrastructure necessary to transport NGLs to other markets. In order to obtain committed transportation capacity, it may be necessary to make significant minimum volume commitments, with take or pay payments or deficiency fees if the minimum volume is not delivered. In other instances, we may enter into long term sales arrangements, and we may incur shortfall or deficiency fees or be subject to other liabilities, including breach of contract claims, if we do not deliver the contracted quantity. We market NGLs on behalf of certain of our producer customers, and as a result, we may make such commitments on behalf of those producer customers. We expect to be able to pass such commitments through to our producer customers, but if we were unable to do so, our operating costs may increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions. Certain of our producer customers have elected, or may from time to time in the future elect, to take in kind and market their NGLs directly, which may also impact our ability to meet any obligations we may have to deliver contracted quantities of NGLs or other commitments. Similarly, our ability to export NGLs on a competitive basis is impacted by various factors, including availability of sufficient railcar, tanker and terminalling facility capacity; currency fluctuations; compliance with additional governmental regulations and maritime requirements, including U.S. export controls and foreign laws, sanctions regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; risks of loss resulting from non payment or non performance by international purchasers; and political and economic disturbances in the countries to which NGLs are being exported. The above factors could increase our operating costs or adversely affect the price that we and our producer customers receive for NGLs, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our volumes, revenues, income and cash available for distribution. We depend on third parties for the oil, natural gas and refined products we gather, transport and store, the natural gas and refinery off gas we process, and the NGLs we fractionate and stabilize at our facilities, and a reduction in these quantities could reduce our revenues and cash flow. Although we obtain our supply of oil, natural gas, refinery off gas, NGLs and refined products from numerous third party producers and suppliers, a significant portion comes from a limited number of key producers suppliers, who are usually under no obligation to deliver a specific volume to our facilities. If these key suppliers, or a significant number of other producers, were to decrease the supply of oil, natural gas, refinery off gas, NGLs or refined products to our systems and facilities for any reason, we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes. In some cases, the producers or suppliers are responsible for gathering or delivering oil, natural gas, refinery off gas, NGLs or refined products to our facilities or we rely on other third parties to deliver volumes to us on behalf of the producers or suppliers. If such producers, suppliers or other third parties are 32 Table of Contents unable, or otherwise fail to, deliver the volumes to our facilities, or if our agreements with any of these third parties terminate or expire such that our facilities are no longer connected to their gathering or transportation systems or the third parties modify the flow of natural gas, refinery off gas or NGLs on those systems away from our facilities, the throughput on and utilization of our facilities may be reduced, or we may be required to incur significant capital expenditures to construct and install gathering pipelines or other facilities to be able to receive such volumes. Because our operating costs are primarily fixed, a reduction in the volumes delivered to us would result not only in a reduction of revenues, but also a decline in net income and cash flow. We may not be able to retain existing customers, or acquire new customers, which would reduce our revenues and limit our future profitability. A significant portion of our business comes from a limited number of key customers. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including competition from other gatherers, processors, pipelines and fractionators, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and refined products in the markets we serve. Our competitors include large oil, natural gas, refining and petrochemical companies, some of which have greater financial resources, more numerous or greater capacity pipelines, processing and other facilities, greater access to natural gas, crude oil and NGL supplies than we do or other synergies with existing or new customers that we cannot provide. Our competitors may also include our joint venture partners, who in some cases are permitted to compete with us and may have a competitive advantage due to their familiarity with our business arising from our joint venture arrangements, as well as third parties on whom we rely to deliver natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and refined products to our facilities, who may have a competitive advantage due to their ability to modify the flow of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and refined products on their systems away from our facilities. Additionally, our customers that gather gas through facilities that are not otherwise dedicated to us may develop their own processing and fractionation facilities in lieu of using our services. As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry, and the volatility of natural gas prices, end users and utilities are reluctant to enter into long term purchase contracts. Many end users purchase natural gas from more than 1 natural gas company and have the ability to change providers at any time. Some of these end users also have the ability to switch between gas and alternative fuels in response to relative price fluctuations in the market. Because there are numerous companies of greatly varying size and financial capacity that compete with us in the marketing of natural gas, we often compete in the end user and utilities markets primarily on the basis of price. The inability of our management to renew or replace our current contracts as they expire and to respond appropriately to changing market conditions could affect our profitability. The fees charged to third parties under our gathering, processing, transmission, transportation, fractionation, stabilization and storage agreements may not escalate sufficiently to cover increases in costs, or the agreements may not be renewed or may be suspended in some circumstances. Our costs may increase at a rate greater than the fees we charge to third parties. Furthermore, third parties may not renew their contracts with us. Additionally, some third parties obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced due to certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events wherein the supply of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil or refined products are curtailed or cut off due to events outside our control, and in some cases, certain of those agreements may be terminated in their entirety if the duration of such events exceeds a specified period of time. If the escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs, or if third parties do not renew or extend their contracts with us, or if third parties suspend or terminate their contracts with us, our financial results would suffer. We are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers and derivative counterparties, and any material non payment or non performance by our key customers or derivative counterparties could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from non payment or non performance by our customers, which risks may increase during periods of economic uncertainty. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. This risk is further heightened during sustained periods of declines of natural gas, NGL and oil prices. With respect to our producer customers who have made acreage dedications to us, we may be exposed to additional risks to the extent that those customers become bankrupt and the acreage dedications are challenged and not upheld in bankruptcy. In addition, our risk management activities are subject to the risks that a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument, the terms of the derivative instruments are imperfect, and our risk management policies and procedures are not properly followed. Any such material non payment or non performance could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. 33 Table of Contents If we are unable to make strategic acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from MPC or third parties, our ability to implement our business strategy may be impaired. In addition to organic growth, a comp1nt of our business strategy can include the expansion of our operations through strategic acquisitions. If we are unable to make accretive strategic acquisitions from MPC or third parties that increase the cash generated from operations per unit, whether due to an inability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, to negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, or to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, then our ability to successfully implement our business strategy may be impaired. Significant acquisitions in the future will involve the integration of new assets or businesses and present substantial risks that could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. Our future growth may depend in part on our ability to integrate our future acquisitions. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully integrate assets acquired in dropdowns from MPC, or any other acquisitions, into our existing operations, or that we will achieve the desired profitability and anticipated results from such acquisitions. Failure to achieve such planned results could adversely affect our operations and cash available for distribution. Significant acquisitions, including any potential transaction with ANDX, present potential risks including inaccurate assumptions about future synergies, revenues, capital expenditures and operating costs; an inability to successfully integrate assets or businesses we acquire; a decrease in our liquidity resulting from using a portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement to finance transactions; a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance transactions; the assumption of unknown environmental and other liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; the diversion of management attention from other business concerns; the incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges; and the loss of customers or key employees from the acquired businesses. Unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition, if at all. Our capitalization and results of operation may also change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we may consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. We are indemnified for liabilities arising from an ongoing remediation of property on which certain of our facilities are located and our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected if an indemnifying party fails to perform its indemnification obligations. The prior third party owner or operator of our Kenova, Boldman, Cobb, Kermit and Majorsville facilities has been or is currently involved in investigatory or remedial activities with respect to the real property underlying those facilities pursuant to regulatory orders with the EPA and various state regulatory agencies. The third party or its successor in interest has agreed to retain sole liability and responsibility for, and to indemnify us against, any environmental liabilities associated with these regulatory orders or the real property underlying these facilities to the extent such liabilities arose prior to the effective date of the agreements pursuant to which such properties were acquired or leased and to the extent not contributed to by us. In addition, the previous owner and or operator of certain facilities on the real property on which our rail facility is constructed near Houston, Pennsylvania has been or is currently involved in investigatory or remedial activities related to AMD with respect to that real property. The third party has accepted liability and responsibility for, and has agreed to indemnify us against, any environmental liabilities associated with the AMD that are not exacerbated by us in connection with our operations. MPC has also agreed to indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities related to assets contributed to us by MPC in our Initial Offering or sold to us subsequently. Our results of operation and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected if in the future any of these third parties fail to perform their indemnification obligations. In addition, from time to time, we have acquired, and may acquire in the future, facilities from third parties which previously have been or currently are the subject of investigatory, remedial or monitoring activities relating to environmental matters. In some cases, we may receive indemnification from the prior owner or operator for some or all of such liabilities, and in other cases we may 34 Table of Contents accept some or all of such liabilities. There is no assurance that any such third parties will perform any such indemnification obligations, or that the obligations and liabilities that we may accept in connection with any such acquisition will not be larger than anticipated, and in such event, our results of operations and cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. If foreign investment in us or our general partner exceeds certain levels, we could be prohibited from operating inland river vessels, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Shipping Act of 1916 and Merchant Marine Act of 1920, which we refer to collectively as the Maritime Laws, generally require that vessels engaged in U.S. coastwise trade be owned by U.S. citizens. Among other requirements to establish citizenship, entities that own such vessels must be owned at least 75 percent by U.S. citizens. If we fail to maintain compliance with the Maritime Laws, we would be prohibited from operating vessels in the U.S. inland waters. Such a prohibition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Relating to our Industry Certain of our pipelines may be subject to federal or state rate and service regulation, and the imposition and or cost of compliance with such regulation could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Some of our natural gas, crude oil, NGL, and refined product pipelines are, or may in the future be, subject to siting, public necessity and or service regulations by FERC and or various state or other regulatory bodies, depending upon jurisdiction. FERC generally regulates the transportation of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and refined products in interstate commerce and FERC regulatory authority includes facilities construction, acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities (for natural gas pipelines only); rates; operations; accounts and records; and depreciation and amortization policies. FERC action in any of these areas or modifications of its current regulations can adversely impact our ability to compete for business, the costs we incur in our operations, the construction of new facilities or our ability to recover the full cost of operating our pipelines. FERC also may conduct audits of these facilities, and if FERC determines that we are not in compliance with our tariff or applicable regulations, we may incur additional costs, expenses or penalties. For certain natural gas, NGL, crude oil and refined product common carrier pipelines, we have FERC tariffs on file and we may have additional pipelines in the future that may be subject to these requirements. We also own and are constructing pipelines, including pipelines that carry NGLs between our processing and fractionation facilities, that we believe are either not subject to FERC jurisdiction or would otherwise meet the qualifications for a waiver from many or all of FERC requirements. However, we cannot provide assurance that FERC will not at some point find that some or all of these pipelines are subject to FERC requirements and or are otherwise not exempt from certain requirements. Such a finding could subject us to potentially burdensome and expensive operational, reporting and other requirements as well as fines, penalties or other sanctions. Most of our natural gas and NGL pipelines are generally not subject to regulation by FERC. The NGA specifically exempts natural gas gathering systems from FERC jurisdiction. Yet, such operations may still be subject to regulation by various state agencies. The applicable statutes and regulations generally require that our rates and terms and conditions of service provide no more than a fair return on the aggregate value of the facilities used to render services and that we offer service to our shippers on a not unduly discriminatory basis. We cannot assure unitholders that FERC will not at some point determine that some or all of such pipelines are within its jurisdiction, and regulate such services, which could limit the rates that we may charge, increase our costs of operation, and subject us to fines, penalties or other sanctions. FERC rate cases can involve complex and expensive proceedings. For more information regarding regulatory matters that could affect our business, please read Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters as set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Some of our natural gas, NGL, crude oil and refined product pipelines, are subject to FERC rate making policies that could have an adverse impact on our ability to establish rates that would allow us to recover the full cost of operating our pipelines including a reasonable return. A number of our pipelines provide interstate service that is subject to regulation by FERC. FERC prescribes rate methodologies for developing regulated tariff rates for these natural gas, interstate oil and products pipelines. FERC regulated tariff may not allow us to recover all of our costs of providing services. Changes in FERC approved rate methodologies, or challenges to our application of an approved methodology, could also adversely affect our rates. Additionally, shippers may protest (and FERC may investigate) the lawfulness of tariff rates. FERC can require refunds of amounts collected pursuant to rates that are ultimately found to be unlawful and prescribe new rates prospectively. MPC has agreed not to challenge, or to cause others to challenge or assist others in challenging, our tariff rates in effect during the term of our transportation services agreements with MPC. However, this agreement does not prevent other shippers or 35 Table of Contents interested persons from challenging our tariff rates or proration rules; nor does it prevent regulators from reviewing our rates and tariffs on their own initiative. At the end of the term of each of our transportation services agreements with MPC, if the agreement is not renewed, MPC will be free to challenge, or to cause other parties to challenge or assist others in challenging, our tariffs in effect at that time. Action by FERC could adversely affect our ability to establish reasonable rates that cover operating costs and allow for a reasonable return. An adverse determination in any future rate proceeding brought by or against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain new rights of way or other property rights, or the cost of renewing existing rights of way or property rights increases, then we may be unable to fully execute our growth strategy, which may adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to unitholders. The construction of additions to, or expansions of, our facilities may require us to obtain new rights of way or other property rights prior to constructing new plants, pipelines and other transportation and storage facilities. We may be unable to obtain such rights of way or other property rights to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines, to connect our existing or future facilities to new natural gas, NGL, crude oil or refined product markets, or to capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to renew existing rights of way or other property rights, including the renewal of leases for land on which our processing facilities are located. If the cost of obtaining new or renewing existing rights of way or other property rights increases, it may adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to unitholders. If we are unable to renew a lease or other land rights for land on which any of our processing or other facilities are located, we may be required to remove our facilities from that site, which could require us to incur significant costs and expenses, disrupt our operations, and adversely affect our cash available for distribution. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make distributions at our intended levels. Our revolving credit facility and our loan agreement with MPC Investment LLC ( MPC Investment ) have variable interest rates. The United States Federal Reserve has gradually raised the federal funds rate since 2015 and may continue to raise interest rates in the future. As a result, future interest rates on our debt could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. In addition, we may in the future refinance outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility with fixed rate indebtedness. Interest rates payable on fixed rate indebtedness typically are higher than the short term variable interest rates that we pay on borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We also have other fixed rate indebtedness that we may need or desire to refinance in the future prior to the applicable stated maturity. Furthermore, as with other yield oriented securities, our unit price will be impacted by our cash distributions and the implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield oriented securities for investment decision making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to make distributions at our intended levels. Our business is subject to laws and regulations with respect to environmental, occupational safety and health, nuisance, zoning, land use and other regulatory matters, and the violation of, or the cost of compliance with, such laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Numerous governmental agencies enforce federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of environmental, occupational safety and health, nuisance, zoning, land use, endangered species and other regulatory matters. We could be adversely affected by increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from non compliance with operating or other regulatory permits. Strict joint and several liability may be incurred without regard to fault, or the legality of the original conduct, under certain of the environmental laws for remediation of contaminated areas, including CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Private parties, including the owners of properties located near our facilities or through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as seek damages for non compliance, with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. New, more stringent environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies, the listing of additional species as endangered or threatened or the designation of new critical habitat for listed species, and new, amended or re interpreted permitting requirements, policies and processes, might adversely affect our operations and activities, and existing laws, regulations and policies could be reinterpreted or modified to impose additional requirements, delays or constraints on our construction of facilities or on our operations, increase our operating costs, or require our facilities to be aggregated into 1 air emissions permit or permit application. In addition, government disruptions, such as a U.S. federal government shutdown, may delay or halt the granting and renewal of permits, licenses and other Item required by us and our customers to conduct our business. We 36 Table of Contents have experienced construction delays related to these factors as a result of the U.S. federal government recent shutdown. Federal, state and local agencies also could impose additional health and safety requirements, any of which could increase our operating costs. Local governments may adopt more stringent local permitting and zoning ordinances that impose additional time, place and manner restrictions, delays or constraints on our activities to construct and operate our facilities, require the relocation of our facilities, prevent or restrict the expansion of our facilities, or increase our costs to construct and operate our facilities, including the construction of sound mitigation devices. In addition, we face the risk of accidental releases or spills associated with our operations, which could result in material costs and liabilities, including those relating to claims for damages to property, natural resources and persons, environmental remediation and restoration costs and governmental fines and penalties. Our failure to comply with or alleged non compliance with environmental or safety related laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations and even injunctions that restrict or prohibit some or all of our operations. For more information regarding the environmental, safety and other regulatory matters that could affect our business, please read Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters and Item 1 Business Environmental Regulation, each as set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of GHGs or methane could result in increased operating costs, reduced demand for our services and adversely affect the cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. As a consequence to an EPA administrative conclusion that GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA and some states have adopted or are considering regulations aimed at regulating GHG emissions from certain stationary sources that are potential sources of certain principal, or criteria, pollutant emissions. For example, on June 3, 2016, the EPA finalized new regulations that set methane emission standards for new and modified oil and gas production and natural gas processing and transmission facilities. The regulations were part of the prior Administration efforts to reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas sector by up to 45 percent from 2012 levels by 2025. In September 2018, the EPA proposed targeted improvements to the 2016 New Source Performance Standards for the oil and gas industry that are meant to streamline implementation of the rules. Because the issue of climate change continues to receive scientific and political attention, there is also the potential for further legislation or regulation that could result in increased operating costs and or reduced demand for the oil, natural gas, NGLs and products we gather, process, fractionate, store and transport. To the extent that state or federal legislation is passed or regulations are imposed to reduce or regulate GHG emissions, we may experience delays in the construction and installation of new facilities due to more stringent permitting requirements, incur additional costs to reduce methane emissions associated with our operations or be required to aggregate the emissions from separate facilities for permitting purposes or to relocate 1 or more of our facilities due to more stringent emissions standards. If we incur additional costs to reduce methane emissions associated with our operations, it is possible that we may be able to pass through a portion of those costs to our producer customers to the extent permitted under our contractual arrangements. To the extent that we incur additional costs or delays, our cash available for distribution may be adversely affected. Our producer customers or suppliers may also experience similar issues, which may adversely impact their drilling schedules and production volumes and reduce the volumes delivered to us. For more information regarding greenhouse gas and methane emission and regulation, please read Item 1 Business Environmental Regulation Climate Change. Severe weather events may adversely affect our facilities and ongoing operations. We have mature systems in place to manage potential acute physical risks, such as floods, hurricane force winds, wildfires and snowstorms, and potential chronic physical risks, such as higher ocean levels. If any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. Specifically, where appropriate, we are hardening and modernizing assets against flood and wind damage and ensuring we have resiliency measures in place, such as storm specific readiness plans. We have incurred and will continue to incur additional costs to protect our assets and operations from such physical risks and employ the evolving technologies and processes available to mitigate such risks. To the extent such severe weather events increase in frequency and severity, we may be required to modify operations and incur costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Federal, state and local legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing, as well as governmental reviews of such activities, could delay or impede oil or gas production or result in reduced volumes available for us to gather, transport, store, process and fractionate. We do not conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, but we do provide gathering, processing, transportation, storage and fractionation services with respect to natural gas, oil, NGLs and refined products produced by our customers as a result of such 37 Table of Contents operations. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations such as shales. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions but several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process, including the EPA and BLM. In addition, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to provide for additional regulation of hydraulic fracturing. Also, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. If new federal, state or local laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could make it more difficult to complete natural gas and oil wells in shale formations and increase our producers costs of compliance. This could significantly reduce the volumes delivered to us, which could adversely impact our earnings, profitability and cash flows. We do not insure against all potential losses, and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected liabilities and increased costs. We maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be prudent against many, but not all, potential liabilities arising from operating hazards. Uninsured liabilities arising from operating hazards, including but not limited to, explosions, fires, pipeline releases, cybersecurity breaches or other incidents involving our assets or operations, could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Historically, we also have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major facilities, with significant self insured retentions. In the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types and amounts we desire at reasonable rates. We may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from performance of pipeline integrity programs and related repairs, and the expansion of pipeline safety laws and regulations could require us to use more comprehensive and stringent safety controls and subject us to increased capital and operating costs. The DOT through the PHMSA has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for gas transmission and hazardous liquids pipelines located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm. The regulations require the following of operators of covered pipelines to perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; improve data collection, integration and analysis; repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and implement preventive and mitigating actions. Over the past several years, PHMSA has published new regulations, and issued notices for additional proposed regulations, to expand pipeline safety requirements. In addition, PHMSA and other state regulators have recently expanded the scope of their regulatory inspections to include certain in plant equipment and pipelines found within NGL fractionation facilities and associated storage facilities to assess compliance with hazardous liquids pipeline safety requirements, which actions by PHMSA are currently subject to judicial and administrative challenges by 1 or more midstream operators. The adoption of these and other laws or regulations that apply more comprehensive or stringent safety standards to gas, NGL, crude oil and refined product lines or other facilities, or the expansion of regulatory inspections by PHMSA and other state regulators described above, could require us to install new or modified safety controls, pursue added capital projects, make modifications or operational changes, or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, all of which could require us to incur increased capital and operational costs or operational delays that could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Some states have adopted regulations similar to existing PHMSA regulations for intrastate gathering and transmission lines. These regulations have raised operating costs for the industry, and compliance with such laws and regulations may cause us to incur potentially material capital expenditures associated with the construction, maintenance, and upgrading of equipment and facilities. 38 Table of Contents The United States inland waterway infrastructure is aging and planned and unplanned maintenance may adversely affect our operations. Maintenance of the United States inland waterway system is vital to our marine transportation operations. The system is composed of over 12,000 miles of commercially navigable waterway, supported by over 240 locks and dams designed to provide flood control, maintain pool levels of water in certain areas of the country and facilitate navigation on the inland river system. The United States inland waterway infrastructure is aging, with more than half of the locks over 50 years old. As a result, due to the age of the locks, planned and unplanned maintenance may create more frequent outages, resulting in delays and additional operating expenses. Part of the costs for new construction and major rehabilitation of locks and dams is funded by marine transportation companies through taxes and the other portion is funded by general federal tax revenues. Failure of the federal government to adequately fund infrastructure maintenance and improvements in the future would have a negative impact on our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. Furthermore, any additional user taxes that may be imposed in the future to fund infrastructure improvements would increase our operating expenses. Interruptions in operations at any of our facilities or those of our customers, including MPC refining operations, may adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. Our operations depend upon the infrastructure that we have developed, including processing and fractionation plants, storage facilities, gathering and transportation facilities, an export terminal, various other means of transportation and marketing services. Any significant interruption at these facilities or pipelines, or our customers operations, including MPC refining operations, or in our ability to gather, transport or store natural gas, NGLs, crude oil or other refined products to or from these facilities or pipelines for any reason, or to market or transport the natural gas, crude oil, NGLs or refined products, would adversely affect our operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. In some cases, these events may also adversely affect the pricing received for NGLs, and may reduce the volumes of oil, gas, NGLs and refined products that we receive. Operations at our or our customers facilities, including MPC refineries, could be partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of circumstances not within our control, such as unscheduled turnarounds or catastrophic events, including damages to pipelines and facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters; restrictions imposed by governmental authorities or court proceedings; labor difficulties that result in a work stoppage or slowdown; a disruption in the supply of natural gas, NGLs, crude oil or refined products to our pipelines, barges, processing and fractionation plants and associated facilities; disruption in our supply of power, water and other resources necessary to operate our facilities; a marine accident or spill event could close a portion of the inland waterway system; damage to our facilities resulting from gas, crude oil, NGLs or refined products that do not comply with applicable specifications; and inadequate fractionation, transportation or storage capacity or market access to support production volumes, including lack of availability of rail cars, barges, trucks and pipeline capacity, or market constraints, including reduced demand or limited markets for certain NGL products. Our NGL fractionation, storage and marketing operations in the Marcellus and Utica regions are integrated, and as a result, it is possible that an interruption of these operations may impact operations in the other regions, which may exacerbate the impacts of such interruption. The construction and operation of certain of our facilities in our G&P segment may be impacted by surface or subsurface mining operations by 1 or more third parties, which could adversely impact our construction activities or cause subsidence or other damage to our facilities. In such event, our construction may be prevented or delayed, or the costs and time increased, or our operations at such facilities may be impaired or interrupted, and we may not be able to recover the costs incurred for delays or to relocate or repair our facilities, from such third parties. 39 Table of Contents In addition, our marine transportation business is subject to weather conditions on a daily basis. Adverse weather conditions such as high or low water on the inland waterway systems, fog and ice, tropical storms, hurricanes and tsunamis on both the inland waterway systems and throughout the United States coastal waters can impair the operating efficiencies of the marine fleet. Such adverse weather conditions can cause a delay, diversion or postp1ment of shipments of products and are beyond our control. In addition, adverse water and weather conditions can negatively affect a towing vessel performance, tow size, loading drafts, fleet efficiency, place limitations on night passages and dictate horsepower requirements. We rely on the performance of our information technology systems, and the failure of any information technology system, including a failure due to a cybersecurity breach, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business has become increasingly dependent upon digital technologies, including information systems, infrastructure and cloud applications for the gathering and processing of natural gas, the gathering, fractionation, transportation and marketing of NGLs, and the gathering, storage and transportation of crude oil and refined products. We are heavily dependent on our information technology systems, including our ne2rk infrastructure and cloud applications, for the effective operation of our business. We rely on such systems to process, transmit and store electronic information, including financial records and personally identifiable information such as contractor, investor and payroll data, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including our supply chain, pipeline operations, gathering and processing operations, financial transactions, banking and numerous other processes and transactions. These information systems involve data ne2rk and telecommunications, Internet access and website functionality, and various computer hardware equipment and software applications, including those that are critical to the safe operation of our business. Our systems and infrastructure are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber attacks and other events. We also face various other cybersecurity threats from criminal hackers, state sponsored intrusion, industrial espionage and contractor malfeasance, including threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable. To protect against such attempts of unauthorized access or attack, we have implemented multiple layers of cybersecurity protections, infrastructure protection technologies, disaster recovery plans and employee training. While we have invested significant amounts in the protection of our technology systems and maintain what we believe are adequate security controls over personally identifiable investor and contractor data, there can be no guarantee such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be effective. Certain vendors have access to sensitive information, including personally identifiable investor and contractor data and a breakdown of their technology systems or infrastructure as a result of a cyber attack or otherwise could result in unauthorized disclosure of such information. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or personally identifiable information, including by cyber attacks or other security breach, could cause loss of data, give rise to remediation or other expenses, expose us to liability under federal and state laws, reduce our customers willingness to do business with us, disrupt the services we provide to customers and subject us to litigation and investigations, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows available for distribution to our unitholders. State and federal cybersecurity legislation could also impose new requirements, which could increase our cost of doing business. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business. The U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, including the nation refining, pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. The threat of terrorist attacks has subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Risks Relating to the Business and Operations of MPC MPC accounted for a large portion of our revenues in 2018 and will continue to do so on a go forward basis. If MPC changes its business strategy, is unable to satisfy its obligations to us or significantly reduces the volumes transported through our facilities or stored at our storage assets, our revenues would decline and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and ability to make distributions to our unitholders would be materially and adversely affected. For the year ended December 31, 2018 , excluding revenues attributable to volumes shipped by MPC under joint tariffs with third parties that were treated as third party revenues for accounting purposes, MPC accounted for approximately 46 percent of our revenues and other income, including 92 percent of the revenues and other income within our L&S segment, and we believe MPC will continue to account for a large portion of our revenues on a go forward basis. As we expect to continue to 40 Table of Contents derive a portion of our revenues from MPC for the foreseeable future, any event that materially and adversely affects MPC financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may adversely affect our ability to sustain or increase distributions to our unitholders. Accordingly, we are indirectly subject to the operational and business decisions and risks of MPC, the most significant of which include the following the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices and demand for MPC products, and the availability and costs of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks; a material decrease in the refining margins at MPC refineries; disruptions due to equipment interruption or failure at MPC facilities or at third party facilities on which MPC business is dependent; any decision by MPC to temporarily or permanently alter, curtail or shut down operations at 1 or more of its refineries or other facilities and reduce or terminate its obligations under our transportation and storage or refining logistics and fuels distribution agreements; changes to the routing of volumes shipped by MPC on our crude oil and product pipelines or the ability of MPC to utilize third party pipeline connections to access our pipelines; MPC ability to remain in compliance with the terms of its outstanding indebtedness; changes in the cost or availability of third party pipelines, railways, vessels, terminals and other means of delivering and transporting crude oil, feedstocks, refined products and other hydrocarbon based products; state and federal environmental, economic, health and safety, energy and other policies and regulations, and any changes in those policies and regulations; environmental incidents and violations and related remediation costs, fines and other liabilities; operational hazards and other incidents at MPC refineries and other facilities, such as explosions and fires, that result in temporary or permanent shut downs of those refineries and facilities; changes in crude oil and product inventory levels and carrying costs; and disruptions due to hurricanes, tornadoes or other forces of nature. We have no control over MPC business decisions and operations, and MPC may elect to pursue a business strategy that does not favor us and our business. In addition, significant stockholders of MPC may attempt to affect changes at MPC or acquire control of the company, which could impact the pursuit of MPC business strategies. Campaigns by stockholders to affect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short term stockholder value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire company. As a result, stockholder campaigns at MPC could directly or indirectly adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to sustain or increase distributions to our unitholders. MPC may suspend, reduce or terminate its obligations under its agreements with us in some circumstances, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Certain of our transportation, terminal, fuels distribution, marketing and storage services agreements with MPC include provisions that permit MPC to suspend, reduce or terminate its obligations under the applicable agreement if certain events occur. These events include a material breach of the applicable agreement by us, MPC being prevented from transporting its full minimum volume commitment because of capacity constraints on our pipelines, certain force majeure events that would prevent us from performing some or all of the required services under the applicable agreement and MPC determination to suspend refining operations at 1 of its refineries. MPC has the discretion to make such decisions notwithstanding the fact that they may significantly and adversely affect us. These actions could result in a suspension, reduction or termination of MPC obligations under 1 or more transportation and storage services agreements. Any such reduction, suspension or termination of MPC obligations would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. If MPC satisfies only its minimum obligations under, or if we are unable to renew or extend, the transportation, terminal, fuels distribution, marketing and storage services agreements we have with MPC, or if MPC elects to use credits upon the expiration or termination of an agreement, our cash available for distribution will be materially and adversely affected. 41 Table of Contents MPC is not obligated to use our services with respect to volumes of crude oil or products in excess of the minimum volume commitments under the transportation services agreements with us. Our cash available for distribution will be materially and adversely affected to the extent that we do not transport volumes in excess of the minimum volume commitments under our transportation services agreements or if MPC obligations under our transportation, terminal, fuels distribution, marketing and storage services agreements are suspended, reduced or terminated. In addition, the initial terms of MPC obligations under those agreements range from 3 to 17 years. If MPC fails to use our assets and services after expiration of those agreements and we are unable to generate additional revenues from third parties, our ability to make distributions to unitholders may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, under our transportation services agreements, MPC must pay us a deficiency payment if it fails to transport its minimum throughput commitment. MPC may then apply the amount of any such deficiency payments as a credit for volumes transported on the applicable pipeline in excess of its minimum volume commitment during the following four quarters or eight quarters under the terms of the applicable transportation services agreement. Upon the expiration or termination of a transportation services agreement, MPC may use any remaining credits against any volumes shipped by MPC on the applicable pipeline for the succeeding four or eight quarters, as applicable, without regard to any minimum volume commitment that may have been in place during the term of the agreement. If that were to occur, we would not receive any cash payments for volumes shipped on the applicable pipeline until any such remaining credits were fully used or until the expiration of the applicable four or eight quarter period. MPC level of indebtedness, the terms of its borrowings and its credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to grow our business and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our ability to obtain credit in the future may also be adversely affected by MPC credit rating. MPC must devote a portion of its cash flows from operating activities to service its indebtedness, and therefore, cash flows may not be available for use in pursuing its growth strategy. Furthermore, a higher level of indebtedness at MPC in the future increases the risk that it may default on its obligations to us under our transportation and storage services agreements. As of December 31, 2018 , MPC had consolidated long term indebtedness of approximately $28 billion, of which $9 billion was a direct obligation of MPC. The covenants contained in the agreements governing MPC outstanding and future indebtedness may limit its ability to borrow additional funds for development and make certain investments and may directly or indirectly impact our operations in a similar manner. Furthermore, if MPC were to default under certain of its debt obligations, there is a risk that MPC creditors would attempt to assert claims against our assets during the litigation of their claims against MPC. The defense of any such claims could be costly and could materially impact our financial condition, even absent any adverse determination. If these claims were successful, our ability to meet our obligations to our creditors, make distributions and finance our operations could be materially and adversely affected. MPC long term credit ratings are currently investment grade. If these ratings are lowered in the future, the interest rate and fees MPC pays on its credit facilities may increase. Credit rating agencies will likely consider MPC debt ratings when assigning ours because of MPC ownership interest in us, the significant commercial relationships between MPC and us, and our reliance on MPC for a portion of our revenues. If 1 or more credit rating agencies were to downgrade the outstanding indebtedness of MPC, we could experience an increase in our borrowing costs or difficulty accessing the capital markets. Such a development could adversely affect our ability to grow our business and to make distributions to our unitholders. Risks Relating to Tax Matters Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or we become subject to a material amount of entity level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The anticipated after tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this. A publicly traded partnership such as us may be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless it satisfies a qualifying income requirement. Based on our current operations, we believe that we are treated as a partnership rather than as a corporation for such purposes; however, a change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. We have requested and received a favorable ruling from the IRS on the treatment 42 Table of Contents of a portion of our qualifying income. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the 1s we take. A successful IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely impact the market for our common units, and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 21 percent, and likely would pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders generally would be taxed again as corporate dividends, and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity level taxation by individual states. Imposition of any such additional taxes on us will substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our Partnership Agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or an existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution. The IRS has made no determination as to our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Our unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of income even if they do not receive any distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that result from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder allocable share of our net taxable income decrease the unitholder tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to their units will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the common units are sold at a price greater than the unitholder tax basis in those common units, even if the price the unitholder receives is less than the unitholder original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture Item, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder share of our non recourse liabilities, if a unitholder sells units, the unitholder may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Tax exempt entities and non U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Non U.S. persons will also potentially have tax filings and payment obligations in additional jurisdictions. Tax exempt entities and non U.S. persons should consult their tax advisor before investing in our common units. 43 Table of Contents We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. To maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders tax returns. Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently conduct business in approximately 23 states. Many of these states currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is our unitholders responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, or our allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a short seller to cover a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. A unitholder who loans his common units to a short seller to cover a short sale of common units (i) may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, (ii) may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and (iii) may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. 44 Table of Contents The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes or increase the amount of taxes payable by unitholders in publicly traded partnerships. We prorate our Item of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of Item of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our Item of income, gain, loss and deduction between existing unitholders and unitholders who purchase our units based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax Item. N1theless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of Item of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us. We will generally have the ability to shift any such tax liability to our general partner and our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so (or choose to do so) under all circumstances. If we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be reduced. Risks Relating to Ownership of our Common Units Our general partner and its affiliates, including MPC, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to our detriment and that of our unitholders. Additionally, we have no control over MPC business decisions and operations, and MPC is under no obligation to adopt a business strategy that favors us. MPC owns our general partner and approximately 64 percent of our outstanding common units as of February 15, 2019 . Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is not adverse to the best interests of our partnership and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner also have a duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is not adverse to the best interests of its owner, MPC. Conflicts of interest may arise between MPC and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the 1 hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, the general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including MPC, over the interests of our common unitholders, which may occur under our Partnership Agreement without being independently reviewed by the conflicts committee. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations neither our Partnership Agreement nor any other agreement requires MPC to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, which could involve decisions by MPC to increase or decrease refinery production, shut down or reconfigure a refinery, or pursue and grow particular markets. MPC directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of MPC; MPC, as a significant customer, has an economic incentive to cause us to not seek higher tariff rates, even if such higher rates or fees would reflect rates and fees that could be obtained in arm s length, third party transactions; 45 Table of Contents MPC may be constrained by the terms of its debt instruments from taking actions, or refraining from taking actions, that may be in our best interests; our Partnership Agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limiting our general partner liabilities and restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; our general partner will determine the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; our general partner will determine the amount and timing of many of our cash expenditures and whether a cash expenditure is classified as an expansion capital expenditure, which would not reduce operating surplus, or a maintenance capital expenditure, which would reduce our operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner and the amount of adjusted operating surplus generated in any given period; our general partner will determine which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us and may cause us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us; our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of distributions; our Partnership Agreement permits us to classify up to $60 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions to our general partner; our Partnership Agreement does not restrict our general partner from entering into additional contractual arrangements with it or its affiliates on our behalf; our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than 85 percent of the common units; our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including our transportation and storage services agreements with MPC; and our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Under the terms of our Partnership Agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors and owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. Our Partnership Agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. Our Partnership Agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders. As a result, we expect to rely primarily upon external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Therefore, to the extent we are unable to finance our growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we will distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may reduce the amount of cash available to distribute to our unitholders. 46 Table of Contents Our Partnership Agreement replaces our general partner fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner. Our Partnership Agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our Partnership Agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Our general partner is entitled to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and is relieved of any duty or obligation to give consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Our Partnership Agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our Partnership Agreement provides that whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our Partnership Agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity; provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith; provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for m1tary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and provides that our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under our Partnership Agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is approved in accordance with, or otherwise meets the standards set forth in, our Partnership Agreement. In connection with a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, our Partnership Agreement provides that any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith, and that our conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner are entitled to a presumption that they acted in good faith. In any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in our Partnership Agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Unitholders have very limited voting rights and, even if they are dissatisfied, they have limited ability to remove our general partner without its consent. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner and will have no right to elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by the members of our general partner, which are wholly owned subsidiaries of MPC. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2 3 percent of all outstanding common units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. As of February 15, 2019 , our general partner and its affiliates owned approximately 64 percent of the outstanding common units (excluding common units held by officers and directors of our general partner and MPC). As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Furthermore, unitholders voting rights are further restricted by the Partnership Agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20 percent or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. 47 Table of Contents Our Partnership Agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders ability to influence the manner or direction of management. If unitholders are not both citizenship eligible holders and rate eligible holders, their common units may be subject to redemption. In order to avoid (1) any material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates that can be charged to customers by our subsidiaries on assets that are subject to rate regulation by the FERC or analogous regulatory body, and (2) any substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property, including any governmental permit, endorsement or other authorization, in which we have an interest, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common units. Citizenship eligible holders are individuals or entities whose nationality, citizenship or other related status does not create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property, including any governmental permit, endorsement or authorization, in which we have an interest, and will generally include individuals and entities who are U.S. citizens. Rate eligible holders are individuals or entities subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us or entities not subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us, so long as all of the entity owners are subject to such taxation. If unitholders are not persons who meet the requirements to be citizenship eligible holders and rate eligible holders, they run the risk of having their units redeemed by us at the market price as of the date 3 days before the date the notice of redemption is mailed. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. In addition, if unitholders are not persons who meet the requirements to be citizenship eligible holders, they will not be entitled to voting rights. Cost reimbursements, which will be determined in our general partner sole discretion, and fees due our general partner and its affiliates for services provided will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution. Under our Partnership Agreement, we are required to reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all costs and expenses that they incur on our behalf for managing and controlling our business and operations. Except to the extent specified under our omnibus agreement or our employee services agreements, our general partner determines the amount of these expenses. Under the terms of the omnibus agreement, we will be required to reimburse MPC for the provision of certain general and administrative services to us. Under the terms of our employee services agreements, we have agreed to reimburse MPC or its affiliates for the provision of certain operational and management services to us in support of our facilities. Our general partner and its affiliates also may provide us other services for which we will be charged fees as determined by our general partner. Payments to our general partner and its affiliates will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. There is no restriction in our Partnership Agreement on the ability of MPC to transfer its membership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new members of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with their own choices and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which will dilute limited unitholder interests. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type, including limited partner interests that are convertible into our common units, without the approval of our unitholders and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such limited partner interests. Further, neither our Partnership Agreement nor our bank revolving credit facility prohibits the issuance of additional preferred units, or other equity securities that may effectively rank senior to our common units as to distributions or liquidations. The issuance by us of additional common units, preferred units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects our unitholders proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; it may be more difficult to maintain or increase our distributions to unitholders, and the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and 48 Table of Contents the market price of our common units may decline. MPC may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. As of February 15, 2019 , MPC held 504,701,934 common units. Additionally, we have agreed to provide MPC with certain registration rights. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. Affiliates of our general partner, including MPC, may compete with us, and neither our general partner nor its affiliates have any obligation to present business opportunities to us. Neither our Partnership Agreement nor our omnibus agreement will prohibit MPC or any other affiliates of our general partner, including ANDX, from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, MPC and other affiliates of our general partner may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, competition from MPC and other affiliates of our general partner could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 85 percent of our common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of such units. A unitholder liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made non recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some jurisdictions. A unitholder could be liable for our obligations as if they were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state partnership statute; or a unitholder right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our Partnership Agreement or to take other actions under our Partnership Agreement constitute control of our business. Unitholders may have to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Section 17 607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of 3 years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units are liable for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the transferee at the time of the transfer and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our Partnership Agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. 49 Table of Contents We list our common units on the NYSE. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments N1 50 Table of Contents Item 2 Properties
