CIK: 1572910
Company Name: PHILLIPS 66 PARTNERS LP
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-02-22
Accession Number: 0001572910-19-000011


Item 1 and 2 BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Phillips 66 Partners LP, headquartered in Houston, Texas, is a Delaware limited partnership formed in 2013 by Phillips 66 Company and Phillips 66 Partners GP LLC (our General Partner), both wholly owned subsidiaries of Phillips 66. On July 26, 2013, we completed our initial public offering, and our common units trade on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol PSXP. On August 1, 2015, Phillips 66 Company transferred all of its limited partner interest in us and its 100 percent interest in our General Partner to its wholly owned subsidiary, Phillips 66 Project Development Inc. (Phillips 66 PDI). As of December 31, 2018 , Phillips 66, through Phillips 66 PDI, owned 68,760,137 common units, representing a 54 percent limited partner interest, as well as a 100 percent interest in our General Partner, which owned 2,480,051 general partner units, representing a 2 percent general partner interest. The public owned 55,343,918 common units, representing a 44 percent limited partner interest, and owned 13,819,791 perpetual convertible preferred units. We are a growth oriented master limited partnership formed to own, operate, develop and acquire primarily fee based crude oil, refined petroleum products and natural gas liquids (NGL) transportation, processing, terminaling and storage facilities and systems. We are managed and operated by the executive officers of our General Partner, with oversight provided by its Board of Directors. Neither we nor our subsidiaries have any employees. Our General Partner has the sole responsibility for providing the employees and other personnel necessary to conduct our operations. We primarily generate revenue by providing fee based transportation, processing, terminaling, storage and NGL fractionation services to Phillips 66 and other customers. Our equity affiliates primarily generate revenue from transporting and terminaling NGL, refined petroleum products and crude oil. Since we do not own any of the NGL, crude oil and refined petroleum products we handle and do not engage in the trading of NGL, crude oil and refined petroleum products, we have limited direct exposure to risks associated with fluctuating commodity prices, although these risks indirectly influence our activities and results of operations over the long term. We have entered into long term, fee based commercial agreements with Phillips 66 to provide transportation, terminaling, storage, stevedoring, fractionation, processing, and rail terminal services. Under these agreements, Phillips 66 commits to provide us with minimum transportation, throughput or storage volumes, or minimum monthly service fees. If Phillips 66 does not meet its minimum volume commitments, Phillips 66 pays us deficiency payments based on the calculations described in the agreements. We believe these agreements promote stable and predictable cash flows, and they are the source of a substantial portion of our revenue. We also have several other agreements with Phillips 66, including an amended omnibus agreement and an operational services agreement. See Note 21 Related Party Transactions , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for a summary of all related party agreements. Our operations are all conducted in the United States and comprise 1 reportable segment. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for financial information on our operations and assets. 1 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 2018 DEVELOPMENTS We are constructing the Gray Oak Pipeline system, which will provide crude oil transportation from the Permian Basin and Eagle Ford to destinations in Corpus Christi and Freeport markets on the Texas Gulf Coast, including the Phillips 66 Sweeny Refinery. Supported by customer commitments, capacity of the pipeline will be 900,000 barrels per day (BPD). At December 31, 2018, we had an effective ownership interest in the pipeline system of 48.75 percent. In February 2019, another party exercised its option to acquire an interest in the pipeline system that reduced our effective ownership interest to 4225 percent. The Gray Oak Pipeline system is anticipated to be in service by the end of 2019. In Corpus Christi, the Gray Oak Pipeline will connect to multiple terminals, including the new South Texas Gateway Terminal under development by a co venturer. The marine terminal is planned to have 2 deepwater docks and storage capacity of 6.5 to 7 million barrels. It is expected to begin operations by mid 2020. We own a 25 percent interest in the terminal. We are constructing a 25,000 BPD isomerization unit at the Phillips 66 Lake Charles Refinery to increase production of higher octane gasoline blend comp1nts. The project includes a long term agreement with Phillips 66 for processing services with a minimum volume commitment. Completion is expected in the third quarter of 2019. The Bayou Bridge Pipeline operates from Nederland, Texas, to Lake Charles, Louisiana. An extension of the pipeline from Lake Charles to St. James, Louisiana, is expected to be in service in March 2019. We own a 40 percent interest in the joint venture. The Sand Hills Pipeline expansion was completed in the fourth quarter of 2018, increasing the capacity to 485,000 BPD. The pipeline transports natural gas liquids (NGL) from the Permian Basin and Eagle Ford to the Texas Gulf Coast. We own a 3334 percent interest in the joint venture. In connection with Phillips 66 project to add NGL fractionation capacity at the Sweeny Hub, we are increasing storage capacity at Clemens Caverns from 9 million barrels to 15 million barrels. The caverns project is expected to be completed in late 2020. We are expanding the Sweeny to Pasadena Pipeline by 80,000 BPD. In addition, product storage capacity will be increased by 300,000 barrels at the Pasadena Terminal and new connectivity will be added to third party terminals. The project is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2020. We are constructing a new pipeline that will connect storage in Lake Charles, Louisiana, to our Clifton Ridge Marine Terminal. This connection is expected to enable additional product exports of up to 50,000 BPD from the Phillips 66 Lake Charles Refinery. The project is backed by a long term agreement with Phillips 66 that includes a minimum volume commitment. The pipeline is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2019. 2 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements SUMMARY OF ASSETS AND OPERATIONS Pipeline Assets The following table presents certain information regarding our pipeline assets as of December 31, 2018 . Each system listed below has an associated commercial agreement with Phillips 66. System Name State of Origination Terminus Commodity Handled Interest Length (Miles) Gross Capacity (MBD) Associated Phillips 66 Refinery Billings Crude System Glacier Montana Crude Oil 79 % 623 126 Billings Billings Products System Seminoe Montana Wyoming Refined Petroleum Products 100 342 33 Billings Borger Crude System Line O Oklahoma Texas Crude Oil 100 276 37 Borger New Mexico Crude New Mexico Texas Crude Oil 100 129 106 Borger West Texas Crude Texas Crude Oil 100 699 156 Borger Borger Products System ATA Line Texas New Mexico Refined Petroleum Products 50 293 34 Borger Borger to Amarillo Texas Refined Petroleum Products 100 93 76 Borger SAAL Texas Refined Petroleum Products 33 102 33 Borger SAAL Texas Refined Petroleum Products 54 19 30 Borger Clifton Ridge Crude System Louisiana Crude Oil 100 10 260 Lake Charles Cross Channel Connector Products System Texas Refined Petroleum Products 100 5 180 Sweeny Eagle Ford Gathering System Texas Crude Oil 100 28 54 Sweeny Gold Line Products System Gold Line Pipeline Texas Illinois Refined Petroleum Products 100 686 120 Borger Ponca City Paola Products Pipeline Kansas Refined Petroleum Products 100 106 96 Borger Ponca City Hartford Connector Products System Hartford, Illinois to Explorer Pipeline Illinois Refined Petroleum Products 100 1 430 Wood River Wood River Refinery to Hartford, Illinois Illinois Refined Petroleum Products 100 3 80 Wood River Ponca Crude System CushPo Oklahoma Crude Oil 100 62 130 Ponca City North Texas Crude Texas Crude Oil 100 224 28 Ponca City Oklahoma Crude Texas Oklahoma Crude Oil 100 217 100 Ponca City Ponca Products System Brown Line Oklahoma Kansas Natural Gas Liquids 100 76 26 Ponca City Cherokee East Oklahoma Missouri Refined Petroleum Products 100 287 55 Ponca City Cherokee North Oklahoma Kansas Refined Petroleum Products 100 29 57 Ponca City Cherokee South Oklahoma Refined Petroleum Products 100 98 46 Ponca City Medford Oklahoma Natural Gas Liquids 100 42 10 Ponca City River Parish NGL System Louisiana Natural Gas Liquids 100 510 133 Alliance Standish Pipeline Oklahoma Kansas Refined Petroleum Products 100 92 72 Ponca City Sweeny to Pasadena Products System Texas Refined Petroleum Products 100 120 294 Sweeny 3 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The following table presents certain information regarding our equity investment pipeline assets as of December 31, 2018 . System Name State of Origination Terminus Commodity Handled Interest Length (Miles) Gross Capacity (MBD) Bakken Pipeline North Dakota Texas Crude Oil 25.00 % 1,915 525 Bayou Bridge Pipeline Texas Louisiana Crude Oil 40.00 49 480 Explorer Pipeline Texas Indiana Refined Petroleum Products 2194 1,830 660 Sacagawea Pipeline North Dakota Crude Oil 49.50 95 175 Sand Hills Pipeline Texas Natural Gas Liquids 3334 1,466 485 Southern Hills Pipeline Oklahoma Texas Natural Gas Liquids 3334 941 192 STACK Pipeline Oklahoma Crude Oil 50.00 149 250 4 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Terminal, Rail Rack and Storage Assets The following table presents certain information regarding our wholly owned terminal, rail rack and storage assets as of December 31, 2018 . Each asset listed below has an associated commercial agreement with Phillips 66. Facility Name Location Commodity Handled Gross Storage Capacity (MBbl) Gross Loading Capacity (MBD) Associated Phillips 66 Refinery Bayway Products System Linden New Jersey Refined Petroleum Products 360 121 Bayway Tremley Point New Jersey Refined Petroleum Products 1,701 25 Bayway Bayway Rail Rack New Jersey Crude Oil N A 75 Bayway Billings Crude System Buffalo Crude Montana Crude Oil 303 N A Billings Billings Crude Montana Crude Oil 236 N A Billings Cut Bank Montana Crude Oil 315 N A Billings Billings Products System Casper Wyoming Refined Petroleum Products 365 7 Billings Sheridan Wyoming Refined Petroleum Products 94 15 Billings Borger Crude System Buxton Crude Oklahoma Crude Oil 400 N A Borger Odessa Crude Texas Crude Oil 521 N A Borger Borger Products System Albuquerque Products New Mexico Refined Petroleum Products 274 18 Borger Amarillo Products Texas Refined Petroleum Products 296 29 Borger Lubbock Products Texas Refined Petroleum Products 182 17 Borger Clemens Caverns Texas Natural Gas Liquids 9,000 N A N A Clifton Ridge Crude System Clifton Ridge Louisiana Crude Oil 3,800 N A Lake Charles Pecan Grove Storage Louisiana Crude Oil 177 N A Lake Charles Ferndale Rail Rack Washington Crude Oil N A 30 Ferndale Gold Line Products System East St. Louis Illinois Refined Petroleum Products 2,031 78 Borger Ponca City Jefferson City Missouri Refined Petroleum Products 103 16 Borger Ponca City Kansas City Kansas Refined Petroleum Products 1,410 66 Borger Ponca City Paola Kansas Refined Petroleum Products 978 N A Borger Ponca City Wichita North Kansas Refined Petroleum Products 769 19 Borger Ponca City Hartford Connector Products System Hartford Illinois Refined Petroleum Products 1,468 25 Wood River Medford Spheres Oklahoma Natural Gas Liquids 70 N A Ponca City Ponca Crude System Cushing Oklahoma Crude Oil 275 N A Ponca City Ponca City Oklahoma Crude Oil 1,299 N A Ponca City Wichita Falls Texas Crude Oil 225 N A Ponca City Ponca Products System Glenpool Oklahoma Refined Petroleum Products 571 19 Ponca City Mount Vernon Products Missouri Refined Petroleum Products 365 46 Ponca City Mount Vernon NGL Missouri Natural Gas Liquids 105 16 Ponca City Oklahoma City Products Oklahoma Refined Petroleum Products 355 48 Ponca City Ponca City Products Oklahoma Refined Petroleum Products 51 23 Ponca City Ponca City NGL Oklahoma Natural Gas Liquids N A 6 Ponca City Wichita South Kansas Refined Petroleum Products 272 N A Ponca City River Parish NGL System Louisiana Natural Gas Liquids 1,500 N A Alliance Sweeny to Pasadena Products System Pasadena Texas Refined Petroleum Products 3,234 65 Sweeny 5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The following table presents certain information regarding our equity investment terminal, rail rack and storage assets as of December 31, 2018 . System Name Location Commodity Handled Interest Gross Storage Capacity (MBbl) Active Terminaling Capacity (MBD) Keene Terminal North Dakota Crude Oil 50 % 503 N A Palermo Terminal North Dakota Crude Oil 70 235 100 Active terminaling capacity represents the amount of railcar loading capacity currently available for use by our customers. Marine Assets The following table presents certain information regarding our wholly owned marine assets as of December 31, 2018 . Each asset listed below has an associated commercial agreement with Phillips 66. System Name Location Commodity Handled Gross Loading Capacity (MBbl h) Associated Phillips 66 Refinery Clifton Ridge Crude System Clifton Ridge Ship Dock Louisiana Crude Oil 48 Lake Charles Pecan Grove Barge Dock Louisiana Crude Oil; Lubricant Base Stocks 6 Lake Charles Hartford Connector Products System Hartford Barge Dock Illinois Dyed Diesel; Naphtha; Lubricant Base Stocks 3 Wood River Bayway Products System Tremley Point New Jersey Refined Petroleum Products 7 Bayway Marine capacity is in thousands of barrels per hour. Processing Assets The following table presents certain information regarding our other wholly owned assets as of December 31, 2018 . Each asset listed below has an associated commercial agreement with Phillips 66. Asset Name Location Commodity Handled Gross Processing Capacity (MBD) Merey Sweeny Delayed coker unit Texas Crude Oil Residuals 70 Vacuum distillation unit Texas Crude Oil Residuals 125 Sweeny Fractionator Texas Natural Gas Liquids 100 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements COMMERCIAL AND OTHER AGREEMENTS WITH PHILLIPS 66 Many of our assets are physically connected to, and integral to the operations of, Phillips 66 wholly owned Alliance, Bayway, Billings, Ferndale, Lake Charles, Ponca City and Sweeny refineries and its jointly owned Borger and Wood River refineries. We have entered into multiple commercial agreements with Phillips 66, which include minimum volume commitments and inflation escalators. These agreements are the source of a significant portion of our revenue. Under these long term, fee based agreements, we provide transportation, terminaling, storage, stevedoring, fractionation and processing services to Phillips 66, and Phillips 66 commits to provide us with minimum quarterly volumes of crude oil, refined petroleum products and NGL or minimum monthly capacity or service fees. See Note 21 Related Party Transactions , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for summaries of the terms of commercial and other agreements with Phillips 66. COMPETITION Many of our assets are subject to contractual relationships with Phillips 66 under our commercial agreements and are directly connected to Phillips 66 owned or operated refineries. As a result, we believe that we will not face significant competition from other pipelines, terminals, storage facilities, rail racks, fractionators and processing units for Phillips 66 transportation and terminaling requirements to and from the refineries we support. If Phillips 66 customers were to reduce their purchases of refined petroleum products, Phillips 66 might only ship the minimum volumes through our pipelines (or pay the shortfall payment if it does not ship the minimum volumes), which would cause a decrease in our revenue. Phillips 66 competes with integrated petroleum companies, which have their own crude oil supplies and distribution and marketing systems, as well as with independent refiners, many of which also have their own distribution and marketing systems. Phillips 66 also competes with other suppliers that purchase refined petroleum products for resale. Many of the entities in which we hold equity investments compete with other interstate and intrastate pipelines, rail and truck fleet operations, including those affiliated with major integrated petroleum and petrochemical companies, in terms of transportation fees, reliability and quality of customer service. Competition in any particular geographic area is significantly affected by the volume of products produced by refineries in that area, the volume of crude oil and natural gas liquids gathered and transported, and the availability of products and the cost of transportation to that area from distant locations. RATES AND SAFETY REGULATIONS Pipeline Rates Our common carrier pipeline systems are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulates interstate transportation on our common carrier pipeline systems under the Interstate Commerce Act (ICA), the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPAct 1992) and the rules and regulations promulgated under those laws. FERC regulations require that rates for interstate service pipelines that transport crude oil and refined petroleum products (collectively referred to as petroleum pipelines ) and certain other liquids be just and reasonable and must not be unduly discriminatory or confer any undue preference upon any shipper. FERC regulations also require interstate common carrier petroleum pipelines to file with FERC and publicly post tariffs stating their interstate transportation rates and terms and conditions of service. Under the ICA, FERC or interested persons may challenge existing or changed rates or services. FERC is authorized to investigate such changes and may suspend the effectiveness of a new rate for up to seven months. A successful rate challenge could result in a common carrier paying refunds together with interest for the period the rate was in effect. FERC may also order a pipeline to change its rates and may require a common carrier to pay shippers reparations for damages sustained for a period up to 2 years prior to the filing of a complaint. EPAct 1992 deemed certain interstate petroleum pipeline rates then in effect to be just and reasonable under the ICA. These rates are commonly referred to as grandfathered rates. Our rates in effect at the time of the passage of EPAct 1992 for interstate transportation service were deemed just and reasonable and therefore are grandfathered rates. New rates have been established subsequent to EPAct 1992 for certain of our pipeline systems. FERC may change grandfathered rates upon complaint only after it is shown that A substantial change has occurred since enactment in either the economic circumstances or the nature of the services that were a basis for the rate. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The complainant was contractually barred from challenging the rate prior to enactment of EPAct 1992 and filed the complaint within 30 days of the expiration of the contractual bar. A provision of the tariff is unduly discriminatory or preferential. EPAct 1992 required FERC to establish a simplified methodology to adjust non market based tariff rates for inflation for interstate petroleum pipelines. As a result, FERC adopted an indexing rate methodology which, as currently in effect, allows common carriers to change their rates within prescribed ceiling levels that are tied to changes in the Producer Price Index (PPI) for finished goods. FERC indexing methodology is subject to review every five years. The indexing methodology is applicable to existing rates, including grandfathered rates, with the exclusion of market based rates. In December 2015, FERC issued a Final Order concluding its five year review of the indexing methodology. FERC established an index level permitting annual adjustment of an indexed ceiling by PPI for finished goods plus 123 percent for the five year period commencing July 1, 2016, and ending June 30, 2021 A pipeline is not required to increase its rates up to the indexed ceiling but is permitted to do so. Rate increases made under the index are presumed to be just and reasonable unless a protesting party can demonstrate that the portion of the rate increase resulting from application of the index is substantially in excess of the pipeline increase in costs. Under the indexing rate methodology, in any year in which the index is negative, pipelines must file to lower their rates if those rates would otherwise be above the rate ceiling. On October 20, 2016, FERC issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. FERC is seeking comment on a number of proposals, including (1) whether FERC should deny any increase in a rate ceiling or an annual index based rate increase if a pipeline revenues exceed total costs by 15 percent for the prior 2 years; (2) a new percentage comparison test that would deny a proposed increase to a pipeline rate or ceiling level greater than 5 percent above the barrel mile cost changes; and (3) a requirement that all pipelines file indexed ceiling levels annually, with the ceiling levels subject to challenge and restricting the pipeline ability to carry forward the full indexed increase to a future period. FERC has not taken any further action on this matter. While common carriers often use the indexing methodology to change their rates, they may elect to support proposed rates by using other methodologies such as cost of service rate making, market based rates and settlement rates. A pipeline can follow a cost of service approach when seeking to increase its rates above the rate ceiling (or when seeking to avoid lowering rates to the reduced rate ceiling). A common carrier can charge market based rates if it establishes that it lacks significant market power in the affected markets. In addition, a common carrier can establish rates under settlement if agreed upon by all current shippers. We primarily use indexed rates and settlement rates for our different pipeline systems. Intrastate services provided by certain of our pipeline systems are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities. These state regulatory authorities use a complaint based system of regulation, both as to matters involving rates and priority of access. State regulatory authorities could limit our ability to increase our rates or to set rates based on our costs or order us to reduce our rates and require the payment of refunds to shippers. FERC and state regulatory authorities generally have not investigated rates, unless the rates are the subject of a protest or a complaint. Phillips 66 has agreed not to contest our tariff rates applicable for our transportation services agreements for the term of those agreements. However, FERC or a state regulatory authority could investigate our rates on its own initiative or at the urging of a third party, and this could lead to a refund of previously collected revenue. 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Pipeline Safety Our assets are subject to increasingly strict safety laws and regulations. The transportation and storage of crude oil, natural gas liquids and refined petroleum products involves a risk that hazardous liquids may be released into the environment, potentially causing harm to the public or the environment. In turn, any such incidents may result in substantial expenditures for response actions, significant government penalties, liability to government agencies for natural resources damages, and significant business interruption. The United States Department of Transportation (DOT) has adopted safety regulations with respect to the design, construction, operation, maintenance, inspection and management of pipeline assets. These regulations contain requirements for the development and implementation of pipeline integrity management programs, which include the inspection and testing of pipelines and necessary maintenance or repairs. These regulations also require that pipeline operation and maintenance personnel meet certain qualifications and that pipeline operators develop comprehensive spill response plans. We are subject to regulation by the DOT under the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (the HLPSA). The HLPSA delegated to DOT the authority to develop, prescribe, and enforce minimum federal safety standards for the transportation of hazardous liquids by pipeline. Congress also enacted the Pipeline Safety Act of 1992 (the PSA), which added the environment to the list of statutory factors that must be considered in establishing safety standards for hazardous liquid pipelines, required regulations be issued to define the term gathering line and establish safety standards for certain regulated gathering lines, and mandated that regulations be issued to establish criteria for operators to use in identifying and inspecting pipelines located in High Consequence Areas (HCAs), defined as those areas that are unusually sensitive to environmental damage, that cross a navigable waterway, or that have a high population density. In 1996, Congress enacted the Accountable Pipeline Safety and Partnership Act (the APSPA), which limited the operator identification requirement mandate to pipelines that cross a waterway where a substantial likelihood of commercial navigation exists, required that certain areas where a pipeline rupture would likely cause permanent or long term environmental damage be considered in determining whether an area is unusually sensitive to environmental damage, and mandated that regulations be issued for the qualification and testing of certain pipeline personnel. In the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement, and Safety Act of 2006, Congress required mandatory inspections for certain U.S. crude oil and natural gas transmission pipelines in HCAs and mandated that regulations be issued for low stress hazardous liquid pipelines and pipeline control room management. We are also subject to the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011, which increased penalties for safety violations, established additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines, and required studies of certain safety issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements for existing pipelines. DOT Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) administers compliance with these statutes and has promulgated comprehensive safety standards and regulations for the transportation of hazardous liquid by pipeline, including regulations for (i) the design and construction of new pipeline systems or those that have been relocated, replaced, or otherwise changed; (ii) pressure testing of new pipelines; (iii) operation and maintenance of pipeline systems, establishing programs for public awareness and damage prevention, and managing the operation of pipeline control rooms; (iv) protection of steel pipelines from the adverse effects of internal and external corrosion; and (v) integrity management requirements for pipelines in HCAs. We monitor the structural integrity of our pipelines through a program of periodic internal assessments using high resolution internal inspection tools, as well as hydrostatic testing and direct assessment that conforms to regulatory standards. We accompany these assessments with a review of the data and repair anomalies, as required, to ensure the integrity of the pipeline. We then utilize sophisticated risk algorithms and a comprehensive data integration effort to ensure that the highest risk assessed pipelines receive priority for subsequent integrity assessments. We use external coatings and impressed current cathodic protection systems to protect against external corrosion. We conduct all cathodic protection work in accordance with National Association of Corrosion Engineers standards. We continually monitor, test and record the effectiveness of these corrosion inhibiting systems. 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Product Quality Standards Refined petroleum products that we transport are generally sold by our customers for use by the public. Various federal, state and local agencies have the authority to prescribe product quality specifications for products. Changes in product quality specifications or blending requirements could reduce our throughput volumes, require us to incur additional handling costs or require capital expenditures. For example, different product specifications for different markets affect the fungibility of the products in our system and could require the construction of additional storage. If we are unable to recover these costs through increased revenue, our cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in the product quality of the products we receive on our product pipeline systems could reduce or eliminate our ability to blend products. Terminal and Processing Unit Safety Our operations are subject to regulations promulgated by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), DOT and comparable state and local regulations. We have identified which assets are subject to the jurisdiction of OSHA or DOT. Certain of our facilities are under the dual jurisdiction of OSHA and DOT, whereby certain portions of the facility are subject to OSHA regulation and other assets at the facility are subject to DOT regulation due to the type of asset and the configuration of the facility. Our facilities are operated in a manner consistent with industry safety practices and standards. The tanks designed for crude oil and refined petroleum product storage at our facilities are equipped with appropriate emission controls to promote safety. Our facilities have response plans, spill prevention and control plans, and other programs to respond to emergencies. Rail Safety Our rail operations involve crude oil loading, receiving and unloading activities. Generally, rail operations are subject to regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Railroad Administration, PHMSA and comparable state and local regulations. We believe our rail operations are in material compliance with all applicable regulations and meet or exceed current industry standards and practices. Security We are also subject to Department of Homeland Security Chemical Facility Anti Terrorism Standards, which are designed to regulate the security of high risk chemical facilities, the Transportation Security Administration Pipeline Security Guidelines, and other comparable state and local regulations. We have an internal program of inspection designed to monitor and provide for compliance with all of these requirements. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations regarding the security of our facilities. However, these laws and regulations are subject to changes, or to changes in their interpretation, by the regulatory authorities, and continued and future compliance with such laws and regulations may require us to incur significant expenditures. In addition, any incidents may result in substantial expenditures for response actions, government penalties and business interruption. While we are not currently subject to governmental standards for the protection of computer based systems and technology from cyber threats and attacks, proposals to establish such standards are being considered in the U.S. Congress and by U.S. Executive Branch departments and agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security, and we may become subject to such standards in the future. We currently are implementing our own cyber security programs and protocols; however, we cannot guarantee their effectiveness. A significant cyber attack could have a material effect on our operations and those of our customers. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS General Our operations are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the protection of the environment. Among other things, these laws and regulations govern the emission or discharge of pollutants into or onto the land, air and water, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination. As with the industry generally, our compliance with existing and anticipated environmental laws and regulations increases our overall cost of business, including our capital costs to construct, maintain, operate and upgrade equipment and facilities. While these laws and regulations affect our maintenance capital expenditures and net income, we believe they do not affect our competitive position, as the operations of our competitors are largely affected in a similar manner. We believe our facilities are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. However, these laws and regulations are subject to changes, or to changes in their 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements interpretation, by regulatory authorities, and continued and future compliance with such laws and regulations may require us to incur significant expenditures. Additionally, violation of environmental laws, regulations, and permits can result in the imposition of significant administrative, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions limiting our operations, investigatory or remedial liabilities or construction bans or delays in the construction of additional facilities or equipment. Further, a release of hydrocarbons or hazardous substances into the environment could, to the extent the event is not insured, subject us to substantial expenses, including costs to comply with applicable laws and regulations and to resolve claims by third parties for personal injury or property damage, or by the U.S. federal government or state governments for natural resources damages. These impacts could directly and indirectly affect our business and have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We cannot currently determine the amounts of such future impacts. Expensed environmental costs were $4 million in 2018 and are expected to be less than $5 million in 2019 and 2020. The majority of the environmental expenses forecasted for 2019 and 2020 relate to environmental matters attributable to ownership of our assets prior to their acquisition from Phillips 66. Phillips 66 has agreed to retain responsibility for these liabilities. Accordingly, although these amounts would be expensed by us, there would be no required cash outflow from us. See the Indemnification and Excluded Liabilities section to follow for additional information on Phillips 66 retained liabilities. Capitalized environmental costs were $8 million in 2018 and are expected to be approximately the same in 2019 and 2020. These amounts do not include capital expenditures made for other purposes that have an indirect benefit on environmental compliance. Air Emissions and Climate Change We are subject to the Federal Clean Air Act (FCAA) and its regulations and comparable state and local statutes and regulations in connection with air emissions from our operations. Under these laws, permits may be required before construction can commence on a new source of potentially significant air emissions, and operating permits may be required for sources that are already constructed. These permits may require controls on our air emission sources, and we may become subject to more stringent regulations requiring the installation of additional emission control technologies. Future expenditures may be required to comply with the FCAA and other federal, state and local requirements for our various sites, including our pipeline and storage facilities. The impact of future legislative and regulatory developments, if enacted or adopted, could result in increased compliance costs and additional operating restrictions on our business, all of which could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Air emissions requirements also affect Phillips 66 domestic refineries from which we directly or indirectly receive the majority of our revenue. Phillips 66 has been required in the past, and will likely be required in the future, to incur significant capital expenditures to comply with new legislative and regulatory requirements relating to its operations. To the extent these capital expenditures have a material effect on Phillips 66, they could have a material effect on our business and results of operations. In December 2007, Congress passed the Energy Independence and Security Act (EISA) that created a second Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS2). This standard requires the total volume of renewable transportation fuels (including ethanol and advanced biofuels) sold or introduced annually in the United States to rise to 36 billion gallons by 2022 The requirements could reduce future demand for petroleum products and thereby have an indirect effect on certain aspects of our business. For compliance years 2015 through 2019, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) reduced the statutory volumes of advanced and total renewable fuels using authority granted to it under the EISA. The EPA actions pertaining to these compliance years have been or, with respect to 2019, may soon be, legally challenged. Currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and other gases) are in various phases of discussion or implementation. These include existing requirements to report emissions of GHGs to the EPA, and proposed federal legislation and regulation as well as state actions to develop statewide or regional programs, each of which require or could require reductions in our GHG emissions or those of Phillips 66. In addition, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, commonly known as the Paris Agreement, entered into force on November 4, 2016. The Paris Agreement could lead to further GHG emission reduction requirements. Requiring reductions in GHG emissions could result in increased costs to (1) operate and maintain our facilities, (2) install new emission controls at our facilities and (3) administer and manage any GHG emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. These requirements may also impact Phillips 66 domestic refinery operations and may have an indirect effect on our business, financial condition and results of 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements operations. In 2017, however, the President of the United States announced his intention to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement. In addition, the EPA has proposed and may adopt further regulations under the FCAA addressing GHGs, some of which may directly impact Phillips 66 domestic refinery operations, while others, such as the EPA Clean Power Plan (CO 2 emission rules for existing fossil fuel fired electric generating units), which remains the subject of litigation and administrative reconsideration, may indirectly affect such operations. Both types of impacts may affect our business. In October 2017, the EPA commenced rulemaking proceedings to rescind the Clean Power Plan, and in December 2017, the EPA published an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, announcing an intent to commence a new rulemaking to replace the Clean Power Plan with an alternative framework for regulating carbon dioxide. In August 2018, the EPA proposed the Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) rule as a replacement for the Clean Power Plan. Congress continues to consider legislation on GHG emissions, which may include a delay in the implementation of GHG regulations by the EPA or a limitation on the EPA authority to regulate GHGs, although the ultimate adoption and form of any federal legislation cannot presently be predicted. The impact of future regulatory and legislative developments, if adopted or enacted, including any cap and trade program, is likely to result in increased compliance costs, increased utility costs, additional operating restrictions on our business, and an increase in the cost of products generally. Although such costs may impact our business directly or indirectly by impacting Phillips 66 facilities or operations, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reliably or accurately estimated due to the present uncertainty regarding the additional measures and how they will be implemented. Waste Management and Related Liabilities To some extent, the environmental laws and regulations affecting our operations relate to the release of hazardous substances or solid wastes into soils, groundwater, and surface water, and include measures to control pollution of the environment. These laws generally regulate the generation, storage, treatment, transportation, and disposal of solid and liquid hazardous waste. They also require corrective action, including investigation and remediation, at a facility where such waste may have been released or disposed. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), which is also known as Superfund, and comparable state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or to the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons that contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the former and present owner or operator of the site where the release occurred and the transporters and generators of the hazardous substances found at the site. Under CERCLA, these persons may be subject to joint and several liabilities for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances released into the environment, for damages to natural resources, and for the costs of certain health studies. CERCLA also authorizes the EPA and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. It is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment. In the course of our ordinary operations, we generate waste that falls within CERCLA definition of a hazardous substance, and, as a result, we may be jointly and severally liable under CERCLA for all or part of the costs required to clean up certain sites where we alleged to have liability. We also generate solid wastes, including hazardous wastes, that are subject to the requirements of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and comparable state statutes. From time to time, the EPA considers the adoption of stricter disposal standards for non hazardous wastes. Hazardous wastes are subject to more rigorous and costly disposal requirements than are non hazardous wastes. Any changes in the regulations could increase our maintenance capital expenditures and operating expenses. We continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. We currently own and lease, and Phillips 66 has in the past owned and leased, properties where hydrocarbons are being handled or for many years have been handled. Although we utilized operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or other waste may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations where these wastes have been transported for disposal. In addition, many of these properties were operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes were not under our control. These properties and wastes disposed thereon may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under these laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements (including wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators), to clean up contaminated property (including contaminated groundwater), or to perform remedial operations to prevent further contamination. Water Our operations can result in the discharge of pollutants, including crude oil and petroleum products. Regulations under the Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 (Clean Water Act), Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA 90) and comparable state laws impose regulatory burdens on our operations. Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure (SPCC) requirements of federal laws and some state laws require containment to prevent or mitigate contamination of navigable waters in the event of an oil overflow, rupture, or leak. For example, the Clean Water Act requires us to maintain SPCC plans at many of our facilities. We maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the Clean Water Act and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance efforts. In addition, the transportation and storage of crude oil and petroleum products over and adjacent to water involves risk and subjects us to the provisions of OPA 90 and related state requirements. Among other requirements, OPA 90 requires the owner or operator of a vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. Also, in case of any such release, OPA 90 requires the responsible entity to pay resulting removal costs and damages. OPA 90 also provides for civil penalties and imposes criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. We operate facilities at which releases of oil and hazardous substances could occur. We have implemented emergency spill response plans for all of our comp1nts and facilities covered by OPA 90, and we have established SPCC plans for facilities subject to Clean Water Act SPCC requirements. Construction or maintenance of our pipelines, terminals and storage facilities may impact wetlands, which are also regulated under the Clean Water Act by the EPA and the United States Army Corps of Engineers. Regulatory requirements governing wetlands (including associated mitigation projects) may result in the delay of our projects while we obtain necessary permits and may increase the cost of new projects and maintenance activities. Workplace Safety We are subject to requirements promulgated by OSHA and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard requires that information be maintained about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and citizens. We believe our operations are in substantial compliance with OSHA requirements, including general industry standards, record keeping requirements, and monitoring of occupational exposure to regulated substances. Endangered Species Act The Endangered Species Act and its state law equivalents restrict activities that may affect endangered species or their habitats. While some of our facilities are in areas that may be designated as habitats for endangered species, we believe we are in substantial compliance with the Endangered Species Act. However, the discovery of previously unidentified endangered species could cause us to incur additional costs or become subject to operating restrictions or bans in the affected area. Hazardous Materials Transportation Requirements The DOT regulations affecting pipeline safety require pipeline operators to implement measures designed to reduce the environmental impact of crude oil and petroleum products discharge from onshore crude oil and petroleum product pipelines. These regulations require operators to maintain comprehensive spill response plans, including extensive spill response training for pipeline personnel. In addition, the DOT regulations contain detailed specifications for pipeline operation and maintenance. We believe our operations are in substantial compliance with these regulations. The DOT also has a pipeline integrity management rule, with which we are in substantial compliance. Indemnification and Excluded Liabilities Under our amended omnibus agreement and pursuant to the terms of various agreements under which we acquired assets from Phillips 66, Phillips 66 will indemnify us, or assume responsibility, for certain environmental liabilities, tax liabilities, litigation and any other liabilities attributable to the ownership or operation of the assets contributed to us and that arose prior to the effective date of each acquisition. These indemnifications and exclusions from liability have, in some cases, time limits and deductibles. When Phillips 66 performs under any of these indemnifications or exclusions from liability, we recognize non cash expenses and associated non cash capital contributions from our General Partner, as these are considered liabilities paid for by a principal unitholder. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements GENERAL Major Customer Phillips 66 accounted for 96 percent , 95 percent , and 95 percent of our total operating revenues in the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Through our wholly owned and joint venture operations, we provide crude oil, refined petroleum products and NGL pipeline transportation, terminaling and storage, and crude oil gathering, NGL fractionation, crude oil processing, and rail unloading services to Phillips 66. Seasonality The volumes of crude oil, refined petroleum products and NGL transported in our wholly owned and joint venture pipelines, stored in our terminals, rail racks and storage facilities and processed through our fractionator and processing units are directly affected by the level of supply and demand for crude oil, refined petroleum products and NGL in the markets served directly or indirectly by our assets. The effects of seasonality on our cash flows should be substantially mitigated through the use of fee based commercial agreements that include minimum volume commitments. Pipeline Control Operations Our wholly owned pipeline systems are operated from a central control room owned and operated by Phillips 66. The control center operates with a supervisory control and data acquisition system equipped with computer systems designed to continuously monitor operational data. Monitored data includes pressures, temperatures, gravities, flow rates and alarm conditions. The control center operates remote pumps, motors and valves associated with the receipt and delivery of crude oil and refined petroleum products, and provides for the remote controlled shutdown of pump stations on the pipeline systems. A fully functional back up operations center is also maintained and routinely operated throughout the year to ensure safe and reliable operations. Employees We are managed and operated by the executive officers of our General Partner with oversight provided by its Board of Directors. Neither we nor our subsidiaries have any employees. Our General Partner has the sole responsibility for providing the employees and other personnel necessary to conduct our operations. As of December 31, 2018 , Phillips 66 employed approximately 600 people who provided direct support for our operations. Website Access to SEC Reports Our Internet website address is http www.phillips66partners.com . Information contained on our Internet website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Our Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q and Current Reports on Form 8 K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to these reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Alternatively, you may access these reports at the SEC website at http www.sec.gov . We also post on our website our beneficial ownership reports filed by officers and directors of our General Partner, as well as principal security holders, under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, governance guidelines, audit and conflicts committee charters, code of business ethics and conduct, and information on how to contact our General Partner Board of Directors. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common units. Risks Related to Our Business Phillips 66 accounts for a substantial portion of our revenue. If Phillips 66 changes its business strategy and is unable to satisfy its obligations under our commercial agreements or significantly reduces the volumes transported through our pipelines or terminals, stored at our storage assets or processed in our processing units, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders would be materially and adversely affected. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from multiple commercial agreements with Phillips 66. Any event that materially and adversely affects Phillips 66 financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may adversely affect our ability to sustain or increase cash distributions to our unitholders. Accordingly, we are indirectly subject to the operational and business risks of Phillips 66, the most significant of which include the following The effects of changing commodity prices and refining, marketing and petrochemical margins. The ability of Phillips 66 to obtain credit and financing on acceptable terms in light of uncertainty and illiquidity in credit and capital markets, which could also adversely affect the financial strength of business partners. A deterioration in Phillips 66 credit profile could increase Phillips 66 costs of borrowing m1y and limit Phillips 66 access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could also trigger co venturer rights under Phillips 66 joint venture arrangements. The substantial capital expenditures and operating costs required to comply with existing and future environmental laws and regulations, including climate change regulations, could impact or limit Phillips 66 current business plans and reduce product demand. The effects of domestic and worldwide political and economic developments could materially reduce Phillips 66 profitability and cash flows. Large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could significantly deteriorate between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting Phillips 66 project returns. Investments in joint ventures decrease Phillips 66 ability to manage risk and may adversely affect the distributions that Phillips 66 receives from the joint ventures. Significant losses resulting from the hazards and risks of operations may not be fully covered by insurance and could adversely affect Phillips 66 operations and financial results. Interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of Phillips 66 reliance on third party transportation of crude oil, natural gas liquids (NGL) and refined petroleum products. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in domestic production of crude oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact Phillips 66 results of operations. Competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage over Phillips 66. Potential losses from Phillips 66 forward contract and derivative transactions may have an adverse impact on its results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements A significant interruption, including interruptions related to disruptions in information technology systems, in 1 or more of Phillips 66 facilities could adversely affect its business. Any decision by Phillips 66 to temporarily or permanently curtail or shut down operations at 1 or more of its domestic refineries or other facilities and reduce or terminate its obligations under our commercial agreements. Indemnification of ConocoPhillips by Phillips 66 for various matters that may arise related to Phillips 66 separation from ConocoPhillips may have an adverse impact on its results of operations and financial condition. Phillips 66 is not obligated to use our services with respect to volumes of crude oil, NGL or products in excess of the minimum volume commitments under its commercial agreements with us. We may not generate sufficient distributable cash flow to sustain the payment of distributions to our unitholders at their current level. The amount of cash we can distribute to our unitholders principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, as well as distributions from our joint ventures, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things The volume of NGL, crude oil and refined petroleum products we or our joint ventures transport and terminal, the volume of NGL we fractionate, and the volume of crude oil residuals we process. The fees and rates we charge with respect to volumes that we transport, store, terminal, process and fractionate. Changes in revenue we realize under the loss allowance provisions of our regulated tariffs resulting from changes in underlying commodity prices. Prevailing economic conditions, including commodity prices. In addition, the actual amount of distributable cash flow we generate will also depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to the following The amount of our operating expenses and general and administrative expenses, including reimbursements to Phillips 66, which are not subject to any caps or other limits. Phillips 66 application of credit amounts under our throughput and deficiency agreements, which may be applied towards deficiency payments in future periods. Phillips 66 application of any remaining credit amounts to any volumes handled by our assets after the expiration or termination of our commercial agreements. The level of maintenance capital expenditures we make. Our debt service requirements and other liabilities. Our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets. Restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and other debt service requirements. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Phillips 66 may suspend, reduce or terminate its obligations under our commercial agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our commercial agreements and operational services agreement with Phillips 66 include provisions that permit Phillips 66 to suspend, reduce or terminate its obligations if certain events occur, such as Phillips 66 determination to suspend refining operations at 1 of its refineries with which any of our assets are associated, either permanently or indefinitely for a period that will continue for at least twelve months. Under our commercial agreements, Phillips 66 minimum volume commitments cover less than 100 percent of the operating capacity of our assets. Any reduction, suspension or termination of Phillips 66 obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Certain comp1nts of our revenue have exposure to direct commodity price risk. We have exposure to direct commodity price risk through the loss allowance provisions of our regulated tariffs and the commodity imbalance provisions of our commercial agreements. Any future losses due to our commodity price risk exposure could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability in the future to make distributions to our unitholders. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, for more information. Our operations and Phillips 66 refining operations are subject to many risks and operational hazards, some of which may result in business interruptions and shutdowns of our or Phillips 66 facilities and damages for which we may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs that results in a business interruption or shutdown for which we are not adequately insured, our operations and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and operational hazards inherent in processing, fractionating, transporting, terminaling and storing crude oil, NGL and refined petroleum products, including Damages to pipelines, terminals and facilities, related equipment and surrounding properties caused by earthquakes, tornados, hurricanes, floods, fires, severe weather, explosions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism. Maintenance, repairs, or mechanical or structural failures at our or Phillips 66 facilities or at third party facilities on which our or Phillips 66 operations are dependent, including electrical shortages, power disruptions and power grid failures. Damages to and loss of availability of interconnecting third party pipelines, terminals and other means of delivering crude oil, feedstocks, NGL and refined petroleum products. Disruption or failure of information technology systems and ne2rk infrastructure due to various causes, including unauthorized access or attack. Curtailments of operations due to severe seasonal weather. Riots, strikes, lockouts or other industrial disturbances. Inadvertent damage to pipelines from construction, farm and utility equipment. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage, as well as business interruptions or shutdowns of our facilities. Any such event or unplanned shutdown could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Phillips 66 refining operations, on which our operations are substantially dependent, are subject to similar operational hazards and risks inherent in refining crude oil. A serious accident at our facilities or at Phillips 66 facilities could result in serious injury or death to employees or contractors working at those facilities, and could expose us to significant liability for personal injury claims and reputational risk. We have no control over the operations at Phillips 66 refineries and their associated facilities. We do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses and could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. We carry separate policies for certain property damage, business interruption and third party liabilities, which includes pollution liabilities, and are also insured under certain of Phillips 66 liability policies and are subject to Phillips 66 policy limits under these policies. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance or failure by 1 or more insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our expansion of existing assets and construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. In order to optimize our existing asset base, we intend to evaluate and capitalize on organic opportunities for expansion projects in order to increase revenue on our pipeline, terminal, fractionation, processing and storage systems. The expansion of an existing pipeline, terminal, fractionation, processing or storage facility, such as by adding horsepower, pump stations or loading unloading racks, or the construction of a new pipeline, terminal, fractionator, processing or storage asset, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all. Moreover, we may not receive sufficient long term contractual commitments from customers to provide the revenue needed to support such projects, and we may be unable to negotiate acceptable interconnection agreements with third party pipelines to provide destinations for increased throughput. Even if we receive such commitments or make such interconnections, we may not realize an increase in revenue for an extended period of time. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability in the future to make distributions to our unitholders. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from Phillips 66 or third parties, our future growth beyond organic opportunities could be reduced, and any acquisitions we may make may lower, rather than increase, our cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. A portion of our strategy to grow our business and increase distributions to our unitholders is dependent on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in distributable cash flow per unit. The acquisition comp1nt of our growth strategy is based, in large part, on our expectation of ongoing divestitures of transportation and storage assets by industry participants, including Phillips 66. If we are unable to make acquisitions from Phillips 66 or third parties because (1) there is a material decrease in divestitures of transportation and storage assets, (2) we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts, (3) we are unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, (4) we are outbid by competitors or (5) for any other reason, our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, they may in fact result in a decrease in distributable cash flow per unit as a result of incorrect assumptions in our evaluation of such acquisitions or unforeseen consequences or other external events beyond our control. Unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we consider in any possible future acquisitions before they are consummated. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Failure to successfully combine our business with assets or businesses we acquire in executing our growth strategy or an inaccurate estimate by us of the benefits to be realized from any such acquisition, may adversely affect our future results. Any acquisition of assets or businesses involves potential risks, including The failure to realize expected profitability, growth or accretion. Environmental or regulatory compliance matters or liabilities. Title or permit issues. The diversion of management's attention from our existing businesses. The incurrence of significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill, or property, plant and equipment or restructuring charges. The incurrence of unanticipated liabilities and costs for which indemnification is unavailable or inadequate. The expected benefits from an acquisition may not be realized if our estimates of the potential net cash flows associated with the acquisition are materially inaccurate or if we fail to identify operating problems or liabilities associated with the acquisition. The accuracy of our estimates of the potential net cash flows attributable to an acquisition is inherently uncertain. If problems are identified after closing of an acquisition, we may have limited recourse against the seller. If any of these risks or unanticipated liabilities or costs were to materialize, any desired benefits from an acquisition may not be fully realized, if at all, and our future financial performance, results of operations and cash available for distribution could be negatively impacted. We may be unable to obtain or renew permits necessary for our operations, which could inhibit our ability to do business. Our facilities operate under a number of federal and state permits, licenses and approvals with terms and conditions containing a significant number of prescriptive limits and performance standards in order to operate. All of these permits, licenses, approval limits and standards require a significant amount of monitoring, record keeping and reporting in order to demonstrate compliance with the underlying permit, license, approval limit or standard. Noncompliance or incomplete documentation of our compliance status may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive relief. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations and on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our investments in joint ventures involve numerous risks that may affect the ability of these joint ventures to make distributions to us. We conduct some of our operations through joint ventures in which we share control with our joint venture participants. Our joint venture participants may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, or those of the joint venture. Additionally, our joint venture participants may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations, and we may be required to fulfill those obligations al1 Failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations. In addition, should any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on the ability of the venture to make future distributions to us. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We do not own all of the land on which our operations are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our operations are located, and therefore, we are subject to the possibility of more 1rous terms and increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid leases or rights of way or if such rights of way lapse or terminate. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies, and some of our agreements may grant us those rights for only a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right of way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Restrictions in our revolving credit facility and senior note indentures could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders and the value of our units. We depend on the earnings and cash flows generated by our operations in order to meet any debt service obligations and to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facility, senior note indentures and any other financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities, which may, in turn, limit our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The provisions of our revolving credit facility and senior note indentures could affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default that would enable our lenders to terminate their commitments and declare any outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, defaults under our senior note indentures and other debt instruments, if any, may be triggered. If triggered, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. See Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources and Liquidity, for additional information about our revolving credit facility. Our assets and operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and safety, including spills, releases, and pipeline integrity, any of which could require us to make substantial expenditures. Our assets and operations involve the transportation of crude oil, NGL and refined petroleum products, which are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations related to protection of the environment. These laws and regulations have raised operating costs for the crude oil, NGL and refined petroleum products industry, and compliance with such laws and regulations may cause us to incur potentially material capital expenditures. Transportation of crude oil, NGL and refined petroleum products involves inherent risks of spills and releases from our facilities, and can subject us to various federal and state laws governing spills and releases, including reporting and remediation obligations. The costs associated with such obligations can be substantial, as can costs associated with related enforcement matters, including possible fines and penalties. Transportation of such products over water or proximate to navigable water bodies involves inherent risks and could subject us to the provisions of the OPA 90 and similar state environmental laws should a spill occur from our pipelines. We have contracted with various spill response service companies in the areas in which we transport or store crude oil and refined petroleum products; however, these companies may not be able to adequately contain a worst case discharge in all instances, and we cannot ensure that all of their services would be available at any given time. In these and other cases, we may be subject to liability in connection with the discharge of crude oil or petroleum products into navigable waters. We could incur potentially significant additional expenses should we determine that any of our assets are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these or any other environmental, safety or pipeline related regulations could result in the assessment of administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial liabilities, and the issuance of injunctions that may subject us to additional operational constraints. Any such penalties or liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Even if we are insured or indemnified against such risks, we may be responsible for costs or penalties to the extent our insurers or indemnitors do not fulfill their obligations to us. See Item 1 and 2 Business and Properties Environmental 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Regulations and Item 1 and 2 Business and Properties Rates and Safety Regulations Pipeline Safety, for additional information. Evolving environmental laws and regulations on climate change could adversely affect our financial performance. Potential additional laws and regulations regarding climate change could affect our operations. Currently, various U.S. legislative and regulatory agencies and bodies are considering various measures in regard to GHG emissions. These measures include EPA programs to control GHG emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs, each of which could impose reductions in GHG emissions. These actions could result in increased (1) costs to operate and maintain our facilities, (2) capital expenditures to install new emission controls on our facilities and (3) costs to administer and manage any potential GHG emissions regulations or carbon trading or tax programs. These actions could also have an indirect adverse effect on our business if Phillips 66 refinery operations are adversely affected due to increased regulation of Phillips 66 facilities or reduced demand for crude oil, refined petroleum products and NGL, and a direct adverse effect on our business from increased regulation of our facilities. See Item 1 and 2 Business and Properties Environmental Regulations Air Emissions and Climate Change, for additional information. Climate change may adversely affect our facilities and our ongoing operations. The potential physical effects of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and depend upon the unique geographic and environmental factors present. Examples of such effects include rising sea levels at our coastal facilities, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels. As many of our facilities are located near coastal areas or serve refineries in coastal areas, rising sea levels may disrupt our ability to transport crude oil and refined petroleum products. Extended periods of such disruption could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Similar potential physical effects, impacts and disruptions could affect facilities and operations of Phillips 66, with which our facilities and operations are connected. Evolving environmental laws and regulations on hydraulic fracturing could have an indirect effect on our financial performance. Hydraulic fracturing is a common practice used to stimulate production of crude oil and or natural gas from dense subsurface rock formations, and presently, is primarily regulated by state agencies. However, Congress has previously considered, and may in the future consider, legislation to empower federal agencies to regulate hydraulic fracturing. Many states have already adopted laws and or regulations that require disclosure of the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing and are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on oil and or natural gas drilling activities. The EPA also has adopted regulations requiring green completions of hydraulically fractured wells and is moving forward with, among other things, various regulations relating to certain emission requirements for some midstream equipment. We do not believe these new regulations will have a direct effect on our operations. If new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to such drilling activities or to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where producers of product we ship operate, those producers could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements and experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of production or development activities. The producers added costs or delays could reduce demand for our transportation and midstream services. New and proposed regulations governing fuel efficiency and renewable fuels could have an indirect but material adverse effect on our business. Increases in fuel mileage standards and the increased use of renewable fuels could decrease demand for refined petroleum products, which could have an indirect, but material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in 2007, Congress passed the EISA, which, among other things, sets a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the United States by model year 2020, and contains RFS2 In August 2012, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration enacted regulations establishing an average industry fleet fuel economy standard of 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025. RFS2 presents production and logistics challenges for both the renewable fuels and petroleum refining industries. RFS2 has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by Phillips 66 to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. Phillips 66 may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to the replacement of refined petroleum products with renewable fuels. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements P lans we may have to expand existing assets or construct new assets are subject to risks associated with societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition to the future development, transportation and use of carbon based fuels. Such risks could adversely impact our ability to realize certain growth strategies. Certain of our planned expenditures are based upon the assumption that societal sentiment will continue to enable, and existing regulations will remain intact to allow for, the future development, transportation and use of carbon based fuels. A portion of our growth strategy is dependent on our ability to expand existing assets and to construct additional assets. Policy decisions relating to the production, refining, transportation and marketing of carbon based fuels are subject to political pressures and the influence and protests of environmental and other special interest groups. For example, our growth plans include the construction or expansion of pipelines, which can involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Our growth projects may not be completed on schedule or at the budgeted cost. In addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and our return on capital employed. Many of our assets have been in service for many years and require significant expenditures to maintain them. As a result, our maintenance or repair costs may increase in the future. Our pipelines, terminals, fractionator, processing and storage assets are generally long lived assets, and many of them have been in service for many years. The age and condition of our assets could result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures in the future. Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Terrorist attacks and threats, cyber attacks, or escalation of military activity in response to these attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Terrorist attacks and threats, cyber attacks, or escalation of military activity in response to these attacks may have significant effects on general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Strategic targets, such as energy related assets and transportation assets, may be at greater risk of future terrorist or cyber attacks than other targets in the United States. Additionally, we rely on the information technology infrastructure of Phillips 66 to conduct our operations. The systems and ne2rks we rely on, as well as those of our vendors and counterparties, may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches, which in turn could result in the unauthorized release and misuse of confidential or proprietary information as well as disrupt our operations or damage our facilities. Additionally, as cyber incidents continue to evolve and escalate, we may be required to reimburse Phillips 66 for additional costs incurred associated with the modification or enhancement of systems or ne2rks that directly serve our operations in order to prevent or remediate such attacks. We do not maintain specialized insurance for possible liability or loss resulting from a cyber attack on our assets that may shut down all or part of our business. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur greater than anticipated costs and liabilities in order to comply with safety regulations, including pipeline integrity management program testing and related repairs. The DOT, through its PHMSA, has adopted regulations requiring, among other things, pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transmission pipelines located where a leak or rupture could harm HCAs. The regulations require operators, including us, to, among other matters, perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; repair and remediate pipelines as necessary; and implement preventative and mitigating actions. PHMSA is considering whether to revise the integrity management requirements or to include additional pipelines in HCAs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and costs of transportation services. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Although some of our facilities fall within a class that is currently not subject to these requirements, we may incur significant costs and liabilities associated with repair, remediation, preventative or mitigation measures associated with our non exempt pipelines. We have not estimated the costs for any repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of these safety regulations, which could be substantial, or any lost cash flows resulting from shutting down our pipelines during the pendency of such repairs. Additionally, should we fail to comply with the DOT or comparable state regulations, we could be subject to penalties and fines. The tariff rates of our regulated assets are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators, which could adversely affect our revenue and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Certain of our pipelines provide interstate service that is subject to regulation by FERC. FERC uses prescribed rate methodologies to develop regulated tariff rates for interstate oil and product pipelines. Our tariff rates approved by FERC may not recover all of our costs of providing services. In addition, these methodologies and changes to FERC approved rate methodologies, or challenges to our application of an approved methodology, could also adversely affect our rates. Shippers may protest (and FERC may investigate) the lawfulness of new or changed tariff rates. FERC can suspend those tariff rates for up to seven months and can also require refunds of amounts collected pursuant to rates that are ultimately found to be unlawful and prescribe new rates prospectively. FERC and interested parties can also challenge tariff rates that have become final and effective. Under our existing commercial agreements, Phillips 66 has agreed not to challenge, or to cause others to challenge or assist others in challenging, our tariff rates in effect during the term of the agreements, except to the extent changes to the base tariff rate are inconsistent with FERC indexing methodology or other rate changing methodologies. This agreement does not prevent other shippers or interested persons from challenging our tariffs, including our tariff rates and proration rules. Due to the complexity of rate making, the lawfulness of any rate is never assured. A successful challenge of our rates could adversely affect our revenues and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our pipelines are common carriers and, as a consequence, we may be required to provide service to customers with credit and other performance characteristics with whom we would otherwise choose not to do business. Certain of our pipelines provide intrastate service that is subject to regulation by various state agencies. These state agencies could limit our ability to increase our rates or to set rates based on our costs or could order us to reduce our rates and could require the payment of refunds to shippers. Such regulation or a successful challenge to our intrastate pipeline rates could adversely affect our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. See Item 1 and 2 Business and Properties Rates and Safety Regulations, for additional information. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders. As a result, we expect to primarily rely upon external financing sources, including related party financing from Phillips 66, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and future issuances of equity and debt securities, to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Therefore, to the extent we are unable to finance our growth externally, our cash distribution policy may significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we will distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights, and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such additional units. Additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may reduce the amount of cash that we have available to distribute to our unitholders. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our General Partner discretion in establishing cash reserves may reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to our unitholders. The partnership agreement permits the general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash we have available to distribute to our unitholders. Our General Partner and its affiliates, including Phillips 66, have conflicts of interest with us, and they may favor their own interests to our detriment and that of our unitholders. Additionally, we have no control over the business decisions and operations of Phillips 66, and Phillips 66 is under no obligation to adopt a business strategy that favors us. As of December 31, 2018 , Phillips 66 owned, through Phillips 66 PDI, a 2 percent general partner interest and a 54 percent limited partner interest in us and owned and controlled our General Partner. Although our General Partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is in the best interests of our partnership and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our General Partner also have a duty to manage our General Partner in a manner that is in the best interests of its owner, Phillips 66. Conflicts of interest may arise between Phillips 66 and its affiliates, including our General Partner, on the 1 hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, our General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including Phillips 66, over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Phillips 66 to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets. For example, Phillips 66 could decide to increase or decrease refinery production, shut down or reconfigure a refinery, pursue and grow particular markets, or undertake acquisition or disposition opportunities, all without regard for the decisions impact on us. Phillips 66 directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of Phillips 66. Phillips 66, as our primary customer, has an economic incentive to cause us to not seek higher tariff rates, even if such higher rates or fees would reflect rates and fees that could be obtained in arm length, third party transactions. Phillips 66 may be constrained by the terms of its debt instruments from taking actions, or refraining from taking actions, that may be in our best interests. Our General Partner will determine the amount and timing of asset acquisitions and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders. Our General Partner will determine the amount and timing of many of our cash expenditures and whether a cash expenditure is classified as an expansion capital expenditure, which would not reduce operating surplus, or a maintenance capital expenditure, which would reduce our operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of available cash from operating surplus that is distributed to our unitholders and to our General Partner and the amount of adjusted operating surplus generated in any given period. Our General Partner will determine which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us. Our General Partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions. Our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $60 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions to our General Partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our partnership agreement does not restrict our General Partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf. Our General Partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations. Our General Partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our General Partner and its affiliates, including our commercial agreements with Phillips 66. Our General Partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Our General Partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our General Partner incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the Board of Directors of our General Partner, which we refer to as our Conflicts Committee, or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. Affiliates of our General Partner, including Phillips 66, DCP Midstream, LLC (DCP Midstream) and Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC (CPChem), may compete with us, and neither our General Partner nor its affiliates have any obligation to present business opportunities to us. Neither our partnership agreement nor our amended omnibus agreement prohibits Phillips 66 or any other affiliates of our General Partner, including DCP Midstream and CPChem, from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our General Partner or any of its affiliates, including Phillips 66, DCP Midstream and CPChem. Any such entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us does not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Consequently, Phillips 66 and other affiliates of our General Partner, including DCP Midstream and CPChem, may acquire, construct or dispose of additional midstream assets in the future without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, competition from Phillips 66 and other affiliates of our General Partner, including DCP Midstream and CPChem, could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and distributable cash flow. Our partnership agreement replaces our General Partner fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties. Delaware law provides that Delaware limited partnerships may, in their partnership agreements, expand, restrict or eliminate the fiduciary duties otherwise owed by the general partner to limited partners and the partnership, provided that partnership agreements may not eliminate the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing. This implied covenant is a judicial doctrine utilized by Delaware courts in connection with interpreting ambiguities in partnership agreements and other contracts, and does not form the basis of any separate or independent fiduciary duty in addition to the express contractual duties set forth in our partnership agreement. Under the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the partnership agreement does not provide for a clear course of action. As permitted by Delaware law, our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our General Partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing. This provision entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement Provides that whenever our General Partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our General Partner, our General Partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the determination or the decision to take or decline to take such action was in the best interests of the partnership, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity. Provides that our General Partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith. Provides that our General Partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for m1tary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our General Partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal. Provides that our General Partner will not be in breach of its obligations under our partnership agreement or its fiduciary duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is approved in accordance with, or otherwise meets the standards set forth in, our partnership agreement. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, our partnership agreement provides that any determination by our General Partner must be made in good faith, and that our Conflicts Committee and the Board of Directors of our General Partner are entitled to a presumption that they acted in good faith. In any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Cost reimbursements, which will be determined in our General Partner sole discretion, and fees due to our General Partner and its affiliates for services provided will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders. Under our partnership agreement, we are required to reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates for all costs and expenses that they incur on our behalf for managing and controlling our business and operations. Except to the extent specified under our amended omnibus agreement, amended and restated operational services agreement and tax sharing agreement, our General Partner determines the amount of these expenses. Under the terms of the amended omnibus agreement we will be required to reimburse Phillips 66 for the provision of certain operational and administrative support services to us. Under our amended and restated operational services agreement, we will be required to reimburse Phillips 66 for the provision of certain maintenance, operating, administrative and construction services in support of our operations. Under our tax sharing agreement, we will reimburse Phillips 66 for our share of state and local income and other taxes that are incurred by Phillips 66 due to our results of operations being included in a combined or consolidated tax return filed by Phillips 66. Our General Partner and its affiliates also may provide us other services for which we will be charged fees as determined by our General Partner. The costs and expenses for which we are required to reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates are not subject to any caps or other limits. Payments to our General Partner and its affiliates will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders. Unitholders have very limited voting rights and, even if they are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our General Partner without its consent. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management decisions regarding our business. For example, unlike 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements holders of stock in a public corporation, unitholders will not have say on pay advisory voting rights. Unitholders did not elect our General Partner or the Board of Directors of our General Partner and will have no right to elect our General Partner or the Board of Directors of our General Partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The Board of Directors of our General Partner is chosen by the member of our General Partner, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Phillips 66. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our General Partner, they have little ability to remove our General Partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. The unitholders are unable initially to remove our General Partner without its consent because our General Partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2 3 percent of all outstanding common units and Series A preferred units (on an as converted basis) voting as a single class is required to remove our General Partner. As of December 31, 2018, our General Partner and its affiliates owned approximately 50 percent of our total outstanding common units and Series A preferred units (on an as converted basis) in aggregate. Unitholders voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20 percent or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our General Partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the Board of Directors of our General Partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our general partner units or the control of our General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our General Partner may transfer its general partner units to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of Phillips 66 to transfer its membership interest in our General Partner to a third party. The new owner of our General Partner would then be in a position to replace the Board of Directors and officers of our General Partner with its own choices. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of general partner interests or limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such general partner interests or limited partner interests. Further, there are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue equity securities that rank equal or senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects Our unitholders proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease. The amount of cash we have available to distribute on each unit may decrease. The ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase. The relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished. The market price of our common units may decline. The issuance by us of additional general partner interests may have the following effects, among others, if such general partner interests are issued to a person who is not an affiliate of Phillips 66 Management of our business may no longer reside solely with our General Partner. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Affiliates of the newly admitted general partner may compete with us, and neither that general partner nor such affiliates will have any obligation to present business opportunities to us. Phillips 66 may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. At December 31, 2018, Phillips 66 held 68,760,137 common units. We have agreed to provide Phillips 66 with certain registration rights under applicable securities laws. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. Our General Partner, or any transferee holding incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units and general partner units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of our Conflicts Committee or the holders of our common units. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. Our General Partner has the right, at any time when it has received distributions on its incentive distribution rights at the highest level to which it is entitled (48 percent, in addition to distributions paid on its 2 percent general partner interest) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution, and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our General Partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and general partner units. The number of common units to be issued to our General Partner will be equal to that number of common units that would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior 2 quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our General Partner on the incentive distribution rights in such 2 quarters. Our General Partner will also be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain our General Partner interest in us at the level that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our General Partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our General Partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions they would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units and general partner units in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Additionally, our General Partner has the right to transfer all or any portion of our incentive distribution rights at any time, and such transferee shall have the same rights as the General Partner relative to resetting target distributions if our General Partner concurs that the tests for resetting target distributions have been fulfilled. Our General Partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own more than 80 percent of our then outstanding common units, our General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Our General Partner and its affiliates owned approximately 55 percent of our common units in aggregate as of December 31, 2018 . Including Series A preferred units on an as converted basis, our General Partner would own 50 percent of our common units in aggregate at December 31, 2018 . 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If a unitholder is not both a citizenship eligible holder and a rate eligible holder, its common units may be subject to redemption. In order to avoid (1) any material adverse effect on the maximum applicable rates that can be charged to customers by our subsidiaries on assets that are subject to rate regulation by FERC or any analogous regulatory body, and (2) any substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property, including any governmental permit, endorsement or other authorization, in which we have an interest, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common units. Citizenship eligible holders are individuals or entities whose nationality, citizenship or other related status does not create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property, including any governmental permit, endorsement or authorization, in which we have an interest, and will generally include individuals and entities who are U.S. citizens. Rate eligible holders are individuals or entities subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us or entities not subject to U.S. federal income taxation on the income generated by us, so long as all of the entity owners are subject to such taxation. If a unitholder does not meet the requirements to be a citizenship eligible holder and a rate eligible holder runs the risk of having its units redeemed by us at the market price as of the date 3 days before the date the notice of redemption is mailed. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our General Partner. In addition, a unitholder who does not meet the requirements to be a citizenship eligible holder will not be entitled to voting rights. Our significant indebtedness and the restrictions in our debt agreements may adversely affect our future financial and operating flexibility. We have significant indebtedness and may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including Limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes. Reducing our funds available for operations, business opportunities and distributions to unitholders because of the amount of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt. Making us more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy, generally. Limiting our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or issuing equity, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders, as well as the trading price of our common units. We may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. A deterioration of our credit profile could limit our access to the capital markets, which could materially and adversely affect our business. A decrease in our debt or commercial credit capacity, including a deterioration of our credit profile, could increase our costs of borrowing m1y and or limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The terms of our debt arrangements may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with such terms could result in an event of default that would enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, defaults under our other debt instruments, if any, may be triggered. Our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Increases in interest rates could adversely impact the price of our common units, our ability to issue equity, or our ability to make distributions at our intended levels. Similar to other yield oriented securities, our common unit price is impacted by our level of distributions and the implied distribution yield of our common units. The distribution yield is often utilized by investors to compare and rank yield oriented securities for investment decision making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positively or negatively, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on the price of our common units, our ability to issue equity, or our ability to make distributions at our intended levels. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. We currently list our common units on the NYSE under the symbol PSXP. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our General Partner Board of Directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Additionally, any future issuance of additional common units or other securities, including to affiliates, will not be subject to the NYSE shareholder approval rules that apply to a corporation. Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. See Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance, for additional information. Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity level taxation, or if we were otherwise subjected to a material amount of additional entity level taxation, then our distributable cash flow to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 21 percent, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxable to the unitholder as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our distributable cash flow would be substantially reduced. In addition, changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity level taxation by individual states. Several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjected to a material amount of entity level taxation, there would be material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be retroactively applied and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any such changes will ultimately be enacted. However, it is possible that a change in law could affect us, and any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our distributable cash flow to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our General Partner because the costs will reduce our distributable cash flow. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us. We will generally have the ability to shift any such tax liability to our General Partner and our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so under all circumstances. If we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders tax returns. We prorate our Item of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge aspects of our proration method, and, if successful, we would be required to change the allocation of Item of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our Item of income, gain, loss and deduction for federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Treasury Regulations permit publicly traded partnerships to use a monthly simplifying convention that is similar to ours, but they do not specifically authorize all aspects of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to successfully challenge this method, we could be required to change the allocation of Item of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of our common units. In determining the Item of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, in certain circumstances, including when we issue additional units, we must determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may, from time to time, consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount, character and timing of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. We may be required to deduct and withhold amounts from distributions to foreign unitholders related to withholding tax obligations arising from the sale or disposition of our units by foreign unitholders. Upon the sale, exchange or other disposition of a unit by a foreign unitholder, the transferee is generally required to withhold 10 percent of the amount realized on such sale, exchange or other disposition if any portion of the gain on such sale, exchange or other disposition would be treated as effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. If the transferee fails to satisfy this withholding requirement, we will be required to deduct and withhold such amount (plus interest) from future distributions to the transferee. Because the amount realized would include a unitholder share of our nonrecourse liabilities, 10 percent of the amount realized could exceed the total cash purchase price for such disposed units. Due to this fact, our inability to match transferors and transferees of units, and other uncertainty surrounding the application of these withholding rules, the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the IRS have currently suspended these rules for transfers of certain publicly traded partnership interests, including transfers of our units, until regulations or other guidance has been issued. It is unclear when such regulations or other guidance will be issued. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS N1 Item 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
