CIK: 1658566
Company Name: CENTENNIAL RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-02-25
Accession Number: 0001658566-19-000028


Item 1 AND 2 BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES Overview Centennial Resource Development, Inc. (the Company, Centennial, we, us, or our ) is an independent oil and natural gas company focused on the development of unconventional oil and associated liquids rich natural gas reserves in the Permian Basin. Our principal business objective is to increase shareholder value by building a premier development company focused on horizontal drilling in the Delaware Basin. We intend to grow our production and oil and natural gas reserves by developing our acreage with an increased focus on optimizing completions, improving drilling results, drilling extended laterals and managing costs. We also intend to grow production and reserves through selective acquisitions that meet our strategic and financial objectives. Presentation of Financial and Operating Data On October 11, 2016, the Company consummated the acquisition of approximately 89% of the outstanding membership interests in Centennial Resource Production, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ( CRP and such acquisition, the Business Combination ). The Company currently owns an approximate 96% membership interest in CRP due to various equity transactions. The financial statement presentation distinguishes CRP as an accounting Predecessor for periods prior to the Business Combination. Centennial is the Successor for periods after the Business Combination, which includes consolidation of CRP subsequent to the Business Combination. Except as the context otherwise requires, references in the following discussion to the Company, Centennial, we, us, or our with respect to periods prior to the closing of the Business Combination are to CRP and its operations before the Business Combination. Organizational Structure The following diagram illustrates the current ownership structure of the company as of December 31, 2018, including the voting interests of our equity holders (1) Includes NGP X US Holdings, L.P. ( NGP ), a former indirect equity owner of CRP, which also owns 1 share of our Series A Preferred Stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the Series A Preferred Stock ). The Series A Preferred Stock provides NGP with the right to nominate and elect 1 director to the Company board of directors, but the Series A Preferred Stock does not have any other voting rights or rights with respect to dividends except distributions in liquidation in the amount of $0.0001 per share. 8 Table of Contents Description of Our Properties All of our assets are concentrated exclusively in the Delaware Basin, a sub basin of the Permian Basin, and our properties consist primarily of large, contiguous acreage blocks primarily in Reeves County in West Texas and Lea County in New Mexico. We have established commercial production on our acreage from nine distinct z1s the Avalon Shale, 1st B1 Spring Sand, 2nd B1 Spring Sand, 3rd B1 Spring Sand, 3rd B1 Spring Shale, Upper Wolfcamp A, Lower Wolfcamp A, Wolfcamp B and Wolfcamp C. As a result, we are able to efficiently develop our drilling inventory and focus on maximizing returns to our stakeholders. As of December 31, 2018 , we operated 263 gross producing horizontal wells and had seven operated rigs running on our acreage, six in Reeves County and 1 in Lea County. As of December 31, 2018 , we have leased or acquired approximately 80,223 net acres, 89% of which we operate. In addition, we own 1,597 net mineral acres in the Delaware Basin. Approximately 79% of our total acreage is located in Texas, primarily Reeves County, in the southern portion of the Delaware Basin and the remaining 21% is located in New Mexico, in Lea County, in the northern portion of the Delaware Basin. Over 76% of our net acreage is held by production as of December 31, 2018 . The relatively high proportion of our operated acreage that is held by production gives us significant operational control and capital spending flexibility. This allows us to execute our development program with significant control over the timing and allocation of capital expenditures and application of the optimal drilling and completion techniques to efficiently develop our resource base. Our development drilling plan is comprised exclusively of horizontal drilling with an ongoing focus on optimizing completions, improving drilling results and managing costs. 9 Table of Contents Proved Oil and Gas Reserves Reserve estimates are inherently imprecise, and estimates for new discoveries and undeveloped locations are more imprecise than reserve estimates for producing oil and gas properties. Accordingly, these estimates are expected to change as new information becomes available. The pre tax PV 10% amounts shown in the following table are not intended to represent the current market value of our estimated proved reserves. The actual quantities and present value of our estimated proved reserves may be more or less than we have estimated. The following table should be read along with , Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report. The following table summarizes estimated proved reserves, pre tax 10%, and standardized measure of discounted future cash flows as of December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Proved developed reserves Oil (MBbls) 63,317 41,786 14,551 Natural gas (MMcf) 180,542 126,065 42,190 NGL (MBbls) 23,093 12,133 3,618 Total proved developed reserves (MBoe) (1) 116,500 74,929 25,200 Proved undeveloped reserves Oil (MBbls) 79,449 59,147 31,914 Natural gas (MMcf) 222,310 201,147 106,154 NGL (MBbls) 28,825 18,853 8,152 Total proved undeveloped reserves (MBoe) (1) 145,326 111,525 57,759 Total proved reserves Oil (MBbls) 142,766 100,933 46,466 Natural gas (MMcf) 402,852 327,212 148,344 NGL (MBbls) 51,918 30,986 11,770 Total proved reserves (MBoe) (1) 261,826 186,454 82,959 Proved developed reserves % 44 % 40 % 30 % Proved undeveloped reserves % 56 % 60 % 70 % Reserve values (in millions) Standard measure of discounted future net cash flows $ 2,479.9 $ 1,5033 $ 375.1 Discounted future income tax expense 499.6 244.8 524 Total proved pre tax PV 10% (2) $ 2,979.5 $ 1,748.1 $ 427.5 (1) Calculated by converting natural gas to oil equivalent barrels at a ratio of six Mcf of natural gas to 1 Bbl of oil. (2) Pre tax PV 10% may be considered a non GAAP financial measure as defined by the SEC and is derived from the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows (the Standardized Measure ), which is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Pre tax PV 10% is computed on the same basis as the Standardized Measure but without deducting future income taxes. We believe pre tax PV 10% is a useful measure for investors when evaluating the relative m1tary significance of our oil and natural gas properties. We further believe investors may utilize our pre tax PV 10% as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our proved reserves to other companies because many factors that are unique to each individual company impact the amount of future income taxes to be paid. Our management uses this measure when assessing the potential return on investment related to our oil and gas properties and acquisitions. However, pre tax PV 10% is not a substitute for the Standardized Measure. Our pre tax PV 10% and Standardized Measure do not purport to present the fair value of our proved oil, NGL and natural gas reserves. 10 Table of Contents Proved Undeveloped Reserves. Significant changes to our proved undeveloped ( PUD ) reserves that occurred during 2018 are summarized in the table below 2018 (MBoe) Proved undeveloped reserves at January 1, 111,525 Transferred to proved developed reserves (40,294 ) Revisions to previous estimates (20,296 ) Extensions and discoveries 89,996 Purchase of reserves in place 5,586 Divestitures of reserves in place (1,191 ) Proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 145,326 During 2018 , we spent $344.8 million in capital expenditures to convert 40.3 MMBoe of PUD reserves to proved developed reserves. Revisions to previous estimates were 20.3 MMBoe and mainly consist of negative revisions for PUD locations that were reclassified to unproven reserves due to (i) such locations no longer being a part of our active development program, and (ii) 14 MMBoe removed for locations no longer expected to be developed within five years of their initial recording in accordance with SEC rules. In addition, we added 90.0 MMBoe of PUD reserves from extensions and discoveries during the year primarily due to new PUD drilling locations that resulted from our 2018 seven rig development drilling program, the majority of which were in the Upper Wolfcamp A. All of our PUD locations are scheduled to be drilled within five years of their initial booking. The Company PUD to proved developed reserves conversion rate was 33% in 2018 . Preparation of Reserve Estimates Estimation of Proved Reserves . Under SEC rules, proved reserves are those quantities of oil, natural gas and NGLs, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. If deterministic methods are used, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) has defined reasonable certainty for proved reserves as a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered. All of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 were estimated using a deterministic method. The estimation of reserves involves 2 distinct determinations. The first determination results in the estimation of the quantities of recoverable oil, natural gas and NGLs and the second determination results in the estimation of the uncertainty associated with those estimated quantities in accordance with the definitions established under SEC rules. The process of estimating the quantities of recoverable reserves relies on the use of certain generally accepted analytical procedures. These analytical procedures fall into four broad categories or methods (1) production performance based methods; (2) material balance based methods; (3) volumetric based methods; and (4) analogy. These methods may be used singularly or in combination by the reserve evaluator in the process of estimating the quantities of reserves. Reserves for proved developed producing wells were estimated using production performance methods for the vast majority of properties. Certain new producing properties with very little production history were forecast using a combination of production performance and analogy to similar production, both of which are considered to provide a relatively high degree of accuracy. Non producing reserve estimates, for developed and undeveloped properties, were forecast using either volumetric or analogy methods, or a combination of both. These methods provide a relatively high degree of confidence for predicting proved developed non producing and proved undeveloped reserves for our properties, due to the mature nature of the properties targeted for development and an abundance of subsurface control data. Evaluation and Review of Proved Reserves . Our historical proved reserve estimates as of December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 were prepared based on reports by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. ( NSAI ). NSAI is a worldwide leader of petroleum property analysis for industry and financial organizations and government agencies. NSAI was founded in 1961 and performs consulting petroleum engineering services under Texas Board of Professional Engineers Registration No. F 2699. NSAI does not own an interest in any of our properties, nor is it employed by us on a contingent basis. Within NSAI, the technical persons primarily responsible for preparing the estimates set forth in the NSAI reserves report incorporated herein are Mr. Neil H. Little and Mr. Mike K. Norton. Mr. Little, a Licensed Professional Engineer in the State of Texas (No. 117966), has been practicing consulting petroleum engineering at NSAI since 2011 and has over 9 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from Rice University in 2002 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Chemical Engineering and from University of Houston in 2007 with a Master of Business Administration Degree. Mr. Norton, a Licensed Professional Geoscientist in the State of Texas, Geology (No. 441), has been practicing consulting petroleum geoscience at NSAI since 1989 and has over 10 years of prior industry experience. He graduated from Texas A&M University in 1978 with a Bachelor of Science Degree in Geology. Both technical principals meet 11 Table of Contents or exceed the education, training, and experience requirements set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers; both are proficient in judiciously applying industry standard practices to engineering and geoscience evaluations as well as applying SEC and other industry reserves definitions and guidelines. We maintain an internal staff of petroleum engineers and geoscience professionals who worked closely with our independent reserve engineers to ensure the integrity, accuracy and timeliness of the data used to calculate our proved reserves relating to our assets. Our internal technical team meets with our independent reserve engineers periodically during the period covered by the proved reserve report to discuss the assumptions and methods used in the proved reserve estimation process. We provide historical information to the independent reserve engineers for our properties, such as ownership interest, oil and natural gas production, well test data, commodity prices and operating and development costs. Jeff Thompson has served as our Vice President of Reservoir Engineering since July 2017. Prior to that, Mr. Thompson served as General Manager at QEP Resources leading the reservoir engineering, geoscience and regulatory teams focused on the Williston Basin from 2016 to 2017. Mr. Thompson also served as the General Manager of the Greater Green River Basin Team from 2015 to 2016 and worked as the Reservoir Engineering Manager of QEP Williston Basin assets from 2012 to 2015. Mr. Thompson originally joined QEP Resources (formerly Questar E&P) in 2005 as a member of the Mid Continent asset team functioning in various engineering roles before managing the Mid Continent Reservoir Engineering Team in 2012 Mr. Thompson earned his B.S. in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Oklahoma. He is a Registered Professional Engineer in Oklahoma and member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Production The following table sets forth information regarding net production of oil, natural gas and NGLs, and certain price and cost information for each of the periods indicated Successor Predecessor For the Year Ended December 31, October 11, 2016 through December 31, 2016 January 1, 2016 through October 10, 2016 2018 2017 Net Production Oil (MBbls) 12,679 6,994 523 1,584 Natural gas (MMcf) 31,707 17,754 1,113 2,660 NGLs (MBbls) 4,332 1,678 96 253 Total (MBoe) (1) 22,295 11,630 805 2,280 Average realized prices (excluding effect of hedges) Oil (per Bbl) $ 55.98 $ 48.17 $ 46.49 $ 37.74 Natural gas (per Mcf) 197 275 310 227 NGL (per Bbl) 27.45 26.28 20.36 1298 Total per BOE (1) $ 39.97 $ 36.96 $ 36.92 $ 30.31 Operating costs per Boe Lease operating expenses $ 374 $ 355 $ 4.40 $ 4.84 Severance and ad valorem taxes 254 199 203 162 Gathering, processing and transportation expenses 258 295 272 201 (1) Calculated by converting natural gas to oil equivalent barrels at a ratio of six Mcf of natural gas to 1 Bbl of oil. Productive Wells As of December 31, 2018 , we owned an approximate 72% average working interest in 393 gross ( 281 net) productive wells. Our wells are primarily oil wells ( 377 gross 267 net productive oil wells) that produce associated liquids rich natural gas. Productive wells consist of producing wells, wells capable of production and wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest, operated and non operated, and net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests owned in gross wells. 12 Table of Contents Acreage The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2018 relating to our gross and net developed and undeveloped leasehold acreage. Developed acreage consists of acres spaced or assigned to productive wells and does not include undrilled acreage held by production under the terms of the lease. Undeveloped acreage is defined as acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or natural gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. Developed Acreage (3) Undeveloped Acreage (3) Total Acreage (3) Gross (1) Net (2) Gross (1) Net (2) Gross (1) Net (2) 44,213 31,979 86,931 48,244 131,144 80,223 (1) A gross acre is an acre in which a working interest is owned. The number of gross acres is the total number of acres in which a working interest is owned. (2) A net acre is deemed to exist when the sum of the fractional ownership working interests in gross acres equals 1 The number of net acres is the sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof. (3) Does not include our 1,597 net mineral acres. The following table sets forth the gross and net undeveloped acreage, as of December 31, 2018 , that will expire over the next five years unless production is established within the spacing units covering the acreage, the lease is renewed or extended under continuous drilling provisions prior to the primary term expiration dates, or pursuant to other terms of the lease agreements. 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net 16,294 9,884 14,519 4,207 17,504 2,522 1,787 1,308 160 160 Drilling Results The following table sets forth the results of our drilling activity, as defined by wells placed on production, for the periods indicated. Productive wells are exploratory, development or extension wells that produce, or are capable of producing, commercial quantities of hydrocarbons, regardless of whether they produce a reasonable rate of return. Dry wells are exploratory, development or extension wells that prove to be incapable of producing hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities to justify completion. Successor Predecessor For the Year Ended December 31, October 11, 2016 through December 31, 2016 January 1, 2016 through October 10, 2016 2018 2017 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Development Wells Productive (1) 80 724 69 65.2 5 25 10 7 Dry 1 10 80 724 70 66.2 5 25 10 7 Exploratory Wells Productive (1) 1 10 Dry 1 10 2 20 Total 80 724 72 68.2 5 25 10 7 (1) Although a well may be classified as productive upon completion, future changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and production may result in the well becoming uneconomical, particularly exploratory wells where there is no production history. 13 Table of Contents Delivery Commitments In 2018, the Company entered into firm sales agreements for both crude oil and natural gas, both of which provide for gross firm sales over the contractual terms as shown below Oil Volume Commitments (1) (2) Gas Volume Commitments (1) (3) Period Total (Bbl) Daily (Bbls d) Total (MMBtu) Daily (MMBtu d) 2019 18,427,000 50,500 24,750,000 67,800 2020 27,460,000 75,200 29,890,000 81,900 2021 32,247,000 88,300 14,600,000 40,000 2022 36,500,000 100,000 12,160,000 40,000 2023 38,325,000 105,000 2024 10,950,000 30,000 Total 163,909,000 81,400,000 (1) Above volumes represent the total gross volumes the Company is required to deliver per the agreements, which are not comparable to the Company net production presented in Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation as amounts therein are reflected net of all royalties, overriding royalties and production to others. (2) The Company is only required to physically deliver 30,000 Bbls d of the total committed volumes of crude oil during the contractual years 2020 through 2024 , and if these physical delivery commitments are not met, a financial obligation would arise. Failure to deliver the remainder of the committed volumes of crude oil under these agreements could result in a reduction of contractual volumes at the purchasers discretion in accordance with the terms of the agreements. (3) The Company is not required to physically deliver these volumes of natural gas over the contractual terms of the agreements. However, if the committed firm sales are not met and the purchaser incurs financial damages, the Company may be required to pay for differences between the contracted prices and current market prices for replacement volumes bought by the purchaser and the purchaser may also require the Company to provide additional financial guaranty in accordance with the terms of the agreements. The Company believes its current production and reserves are sufficient to fulfill the physical delivery commitments; however, the Company is not required to deliver oil or gas specifically produced from any of the Company properties under these agreements. Further, if the Company production is not sufficient to satisfy the firm delivery commitments, the Company believes it can purchase sufficient volumes in the market at index related prices to satisfy its commitments. See also I, Item 7 Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contractual Obligations , in this Annual Report for discussion of firm transportation commitments related to natural gas deliveries. Title to Properties We believe that we have satisfactory title to substantially all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. Individual properties may be subject to burdens such as royalty, overriding royalty, working and other outstanding interests customary in the industry. In most cases, we investigate title and obtain title opinions from counsel only when we acquire producing properties or before commencement of drilling operations. Marketing and Customers We market the majority of our production from properties we operate for both our account and the account of the other working interest owners in these properties. We generally sell our oil, natural gas and NGL production to purchasers at prevailing market prices. We sell all of our NGLs under contracts with terms of greater than twelve months and the majority of our natural gas and all of our oil under contracts with terms of less than twelve months. 14 Table of Contents We normally sell production to a relatively small number of customers, as is customary in our business. The tables below present percentages by purchaser that accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 . For the Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 Shell Trading (US) Company 19 % 33 % 22 % BP America 18 % 16 % % Eagleclaw Midstream Ventures, LLC 12 % 14 % % Plains Marketing, LP % 2 % 48 % Permian Transport and Trading % 7 % 11 % During these periods, no other purchaser accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue. The loss of any of our major purchasers could materially and adversely affect our revenues in the near term. However, since crude oil and natural gas are fungible products with well established markets and numerous purchasers and based on current demand for oil and natural gas and the availability of other purchasers, we believe that the loss of any major purchaser would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Competition The oil and natural gas industry is a highly competitive environment. We compete with both major integrated and other independent oil and natural gas companies in all aspects of our business including exploring, developing and operating our properties as well as transporting and marketing our production. Competitive conditions may be affected by future legislation and regulations as the United States develops new energy and climate related policies. In addition, some of our competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect the supply and demand for oil and natural gas production, such as price fluctuations, domestic and foreign political conditions, weather conditions, the proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities. basis differentials and overall economic conditions. We also face indirect competition from alternative energy sources, including wind, solar and electric power. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Transportation During the initial development of our fields, we consider all gathering and delivery infrastructure options in the areas of our production. The majority of our oil production is sold at the lease as it enters third party gathering pipelines. The purchaser then transports the oil by pipeline or truck to a tank farm, another pipeline or a refinery. Our natural gas is generally transported by gathering lines from the wellhead to a central delivery point and is then gathered by third party lines to a gas processing facility. Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. All of the jurisdictions in which we own or operate producing properties have statutory provisions regulating the development and production of oil and natural gas, including, but not limited to, provisions related to permits for the drilling of wells, bonding requirements to drill or operate wells, the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, sourcing and disposal of water used in the drilling and completion process, and the abandonment of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations including, but not limited to, the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the number of wells which may be drilled in an area, and the unitization or pooling of crude oil or natural gas wells, as well as regulations that generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability or fair apportionment of production from fields and individual wells. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and affects profitability. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, such laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted. Therefore, we are unable to predict the future costs or impact of compliance. Additional proposals and proceedings affecting the oil and natural gas industry are regularly considered by Congress, the states, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ( FERC ) and the courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective. We believe we are in substantial compliance with currently applicable laws and regulations and that continued substantial compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. However, current regulatory requirements may change, currently unforeseen environmental incidents may occur or past non compliance with environmental laws or regulations may be discovered. 15 Table of Contents Regulation of Production of Oil and Natural Gas The production of oil, natural gas and NGLs is subject to regulation under a wide range of local, state and federal statutes, rules, orders and regulations. Federal, state and local statutes and regulations require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations. We own interests in properties located in New Mexico and Texas, which regulate drilling and operating activities by, among other things, requiring permits for the drilling of wells, maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells, and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled and the plugging and abandonment of wells. The laws of New Mexico and Texas also govern a number of conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, the establishment of maximum allowable rates of production from oil and natural gas wells, the regulation of well spacing or density, and plugging and abandonment of wells. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that we can produce from our wells and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill, although we can apply for exceptions to such regulations or to have reductions in well spacing or density. Moreover, New Mexico and Texas impose a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, natural gas and NGLs within their jurisdiction. The failure to comply with these rules and regulations can result in substantial penalties. Our competitors in the oil and natural gas industry are subject to the same regulatory requirements and restrictions that affect our operations. Regulation of Sales and Transportation of Oil Sales of oil, condensate and NGLs from our producing wells are not currently regulated and are made at negotiated prices. Nevertheless, Congress could enact price controls in the future. Sales of oil are affected by the availability, terms and conditions and cost of transportation services. The transportation of oil in common carrier pipelines is also subject to rate and access regulation. FERC regulates the transportation in interstate commerce of crude oil, petroleum products, NGLs and other forms of liquid fuel under the Interstate Commerce Act. Intrastate oil pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. The basis for intrastate oil pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate oil pipeline rates, varies from state to state. We rely on third party pipelines systems to transport the majority of crude oil produced by ours wells. Insofar as effective interstate and intrastate rates and regulations regarding access are equally applicable to all comparable shippers, we believe that the regulation of oil transportation will not affect our operations in any way that is of material difference from those of our competitors who are similarly situated. Changes in FERC or state policies and regulations or laws may adversely affect the availability and reliability of firm and or interruptible transportation service on interstate and intrastate pipelines, and we cannot predict what future action that FERC or state regulatory bodies will take. We do not believe, however, that any regulatory changes will affect us in a way that materially differs from the way they will affect other oil producers and marketers with which we compete. Regulation of Transportation and Sales of Natural Gas Historically, the transportation and sale of natural gas in interstate commerce have been regulated by agencies of the U.S. federal government, primarily FERC. In the past, the federal government regulated the prices at which natural gas could be sold. While sales by producers of natural gas can currently be made at uncontrolled market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. Deregulation of wellhead natural gas sales began with the enactment of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (the NGPA ) and culminated in adoption of the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act which removed controls affecting wellhead sales of natural gas effective January 1, 1993 The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce is regulated primarily under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (the NGA ), and by regulations and orders promulgated under the NGA by FERC. In certain limited circumstances, intrastate transportation and wholesale sales of natural gas may also be affected directly or indirectly by laws enacted by Congress and by FERC regulations. The federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 (the EP Act of 2005 ) is a comprehensive compilation of tax incentives, authorized appropriations for grants and guaranteed loans, and significant changes to the statutory policy that affects all segments of the energy industry. Among other matters, the EP Act of 2005 amends the NGA to add an anti market manipulation provision which makes it unlawful for any entity to engage in prohibited behavior to be prescribed by FERC, and furthermore provides FERC with additional civil penalty authority. The EP Act of 2005 provided FERC with the power to assess civil penalties of up to $1,000,000 per day for violations of the NGA and increased FERC civil penalty authority under the NGPA from $5,000 per violation per day to $1,000,000 per violation per day. In January 2018, FERC increased the maximum civil penalty amounts under the NGA and NGPA to adjust for inflation. FERC may now assess civil penalties under the NGA and NGPA of $1,238,271 per violation per day. The civil penalty provisions are applicable to entities that engage in the sale of natural gas for resale in interstate commerce. On January 19, 2006, FERC issued Order No. 670, a rule implementing the anti market manipulation provision of the EP Act of 2005, and subsequently denied rehearing. The rules make it unlawful, in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas or the 16 Table of Contents purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to (i) use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; (ii) make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or (iii) engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. The new anti market manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate only to intrastate or other non jurisdictional sales or gathering, but does apply to activities of gas pipelines and storage companies that provide interstate services, as well as otherwise non jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted in connection with gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction, which now includes the annual reporting requirements under Order 704, described below. The anti market manipulation rule and enhanced civil penalty authority reflect an expansion of FERC NGA enforcement authority. We are required to observe such anti market manipulation laws and related regulations enforced by FERC under the EP Act of 2005 enforced by the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the CFTC ) under the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (the CEA ) and CFTC regulations promulgated thereunder. The CEA prohibits any person from manipulating or attempting to manipulate the price of any commodity in interstate commerce, as well as the market for financial instruments on such commodity, such as futures, options and swaps. The CEA also prohibits knowingly delivering or causing to be delivered false or misleading or knowingly inaccurate reports concerning market information or conditions that affect or tend to affect the price of a commodity. Should we violate the anti market manipulation laws and regulations, we could also be subject to related third party damage claims by, among others, sellers, royalty owners and taxing authorities. Natural gas gathering service, which occurs upstream of jurisdictional transmission services, is regulated by the states. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts companies that provide natural gas gathering services from regulation by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA. Although FERC has set forth a general test for determining whether facilities perform a non jurisdictional gathering function or a jurisdictional transmission function, FERC determinations as to the classification of facilities are d1 on a case by case basis. To the extent that FERC issues an order that reclassifies certain jurisdictional transmission facilities as non jurisdictional gathering facilities, or vice versa, and depending on the scope of that decision, our costs of delivering gas to point of sale locations may increase. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, the distinction between FERC regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of ongoing litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress. State regulation of natural gas gathering facilities generally includes various occupational safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements. Although such regulation has not generally been affirmatively applied by state agencies, natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny in the future. Intrastate natural gas transportation is also subject to regulation by state regulatory agencies. The basis for intrastate regulation of natural gas transportation and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate natural gas pipeline rates and services varies from state to state. Insofar as such regulation within a particular state will generally affect all intrastate natural gas shippers within the state on a comparable basis, we believe that the regulation of similarly situated intrastate natural gas transportation in any states in which we operate and ship natural gas on an intrastate basis will not affect our operations in any way that is of material difference from those of our competitors. Like the regulation of interstate transportation rates, the regulation of intrastate transportation rates affects the marketing of natural gas that we produce, as well as the revenues we receive for sales of our natural gas. Changes in FERC or state policies and regulations or laws may adversely affect the availability and reliability of firm and or interruptible transportation service on interstate and intrastate pipelines, and we cannot predict what future action that FERC or state regulatory bodies will take. We do not believe, however, that any regulatory changes will affect us in a way that materially differs from the way they will affect other natural gas producers and marketers with which we compete. Regulation of Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health Matters Our operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the occupational safety and health aspects of our operations, the discharge of materials into the environment, and protection of the environment and natural resources (including threatened and endangered species and their habitats). Numerous governmental entities, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the EPA ) and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often requiring difficult and costly actions. These laws and regulations may, among other things, (i) require the acquisition of permits to conduct drilling and other regulated activities; (ii) restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that can be released into the environment or injected into formations in connection with drilling and production activities; (iii) limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, and other protected areas; (iv) require remedial measures to prevent or mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug aband1d wells; (v) apply specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and (vi) impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from drilling and production operations. Any 17 Table of Contents failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of corrective or remedial obligations, the occurrence of delays or restrictions in permitting or performance of projects, and the issuance of orders enjoining performance of some or all of our operations. The following is a summary of the more significant existing and proposed environmental and occupational safety and health laws, as amended from time to time, to which our business operations are or may be subject, and for which compliance may have a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, results of operations or financial position. Hazardous Substances and Handling Wastes The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ) and comparable state laws regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and nonhazardous solid wastes. Pursuant to rules issued by the EPA, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters and other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil, natural gas and NGLs, if properly handled, are currently exempt from regulation as hazardous waste under RCRA and, instead, are regulated under RCRA less stringent nonhazardous solid waste provisions, state laws or other federal laws. However, it is possible that certain oil and natural gas drilling and production wastes now classified as nonhazardous solid wastes could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. For example, in December 2016, the EPA and environmental groups entered into a consent decree to address the EPA alleged failure to timely assess its RCRA Subtitle D criteria regulations exempting certain exploration and production related oil and natural gas wastes from regulation as hazardous wastes under RCRA. The consent decree requires the EPA to propose a rulemaking no later than March 15, 2019 for revision of certain Subtitle D criteria regulations pertaining to oil and natural gas wastes, or to sign a determination that revision of the regulations is not necessary. Were the EPA to propose a rulemaking, the consent decree requires that the EPA take final action by no later than July 15, 2021 Any such change could result in an increase in our, as well as the oil, natural gas and NGL exploration and production industry s, costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, in the course of our operations, we may generate some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, laboratory wastes and waste compressor oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes if such wastes have hazardous characteristics. Although the costs of managing hazardous waste may be significant, we do not believe that our costs in this regard are materially more burdensome than those for similarly situated companies. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ( CERCLA ), also known as the Superfund law, and comparable state laws impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault or the legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the current and former owners or operators of the site where the release occurred and any1 who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources, and for the costs of certain health studies. CERCLA also authorizes the EPA and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to the public health or the environment, and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. We may generate materials in the course of our operations that may be regulated as hazardous substances. We currently own, lease or operate numerous properties that have been used for oil, natural gas and NGL exploration, production and processing for many years. Although we believe that we have utilized operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes, or petroleum hydrocarbons may have been released on, under or from the properties owned or leased by us, or on, under or from other locations, including off site locations, where such substances have been taken for treatment or disposal. In addition, some of our properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons was not under our control. These properties and the substances disposed or released on, under or from them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to undertake response or corrective measures, which could include removal of previously disposed substances and wastes, cleanup of contaminated property or performance of remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination, the costs of which could be substantial. Water Discharges The Clean Water Act (the CWA ) and comparable state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of hazardous substances, into state waters and waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or an analogous state agency. Spill prevention, control and countermeasure plan requirements imposed under the CWA require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters in the event of a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. In addition, the CWA and analogous state laws require individual permits or coverage under general permits for discharges of storm water runoff from certain types of facilities. Federal and state regulatory 18 Table of Contents agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance with discharge permits or other CWA requirements and analogous state laws and regulations. The CWA also prohibits the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by permit. The EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers issued final rules attempting to clarify the federal jurisdictional reach over Waters of the United States (the WOTUS rule ), but this rule has been stayed nationwide by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit while the appellate court and numerous federal district courts ponder lawsuits opposing implementation of the rule. The U.S. Supreme Court considered the issue of which court has jurisdiction to hear challenges to the WOTUS rule, and in January 2018 concluded that jurisdiction rests with the federal district courts. In addition, in 2017, President Trump issued an executive order directing the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to review the WOTUS rule and, if the agencies reviews find that the rule does not meet the executive order goal of promoting economic growth while reducing regulatory uncertainty, to initiate a new rulemaking to repeal or revise the rule. Pursuant to the executive order, in June 2017, the EPA and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers formally proposed to rescind the WOTUS rule. In January 2018, the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers finalized a rule that would delay applicability of the WOTUS rule for 2 years, but a federal judge barred the agencies suspension of the rule in August 2018. Separately, a federal court in Georgia enjoined implementation of the rule in 11 states. However, in December 2018, the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps released a proposed rule that would replace the WOTUS rule and significantly reduce the waters subject to federal regulation under the CWA. Such proposal is currently subject to public review and comment, after which additional legal challenges are anticipated. Substantial uncertainty exists with respect to future implementation of the WOTUS rule. The primary federal law related specifically to oil spill liability is the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (the OPA ), which amends and augments the oil spill provisions of the CWA and imposes certain duties and liabilities on certain responsible parties related to the prevention of oil spills and damages resulting from such spills in or threatening waters of the United States or adjoining shorelines. For example, operators of certain oil and natural gas facilities must develop, implement and maintain facility response plans, conduct annual spill training for certain employees and provide varying degrees of financial assurance. Owners or operators of a facility, vessel or pipeline that is a source of an oil discharge or that poses the substantial threat of discharge is 1 type of responsible party who is liable. The OPA applies joint and several liability, without regard to fault, to each liable party for oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages. Although defenses exist, they are limited. As such, a violation of the OPA has the potential to adversely affect our operations. Subsurface Injections In the course of our operations, we produce water in addition to natural gas, crude oil and NGLs. Water that is not recycled may be disposed of in disposal wells, which inject the produced water into non producing subsurface formations. Underground injection operations are regulated pursuant to the Underground Injection Control (the UIC ) program established under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (the SDWA ) and analogous state laws. The UIC program requires permits from the EPA or an analogous state agency for the construction and operation of disposal wells, establishes minimum standards for disposal well operations, and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be disposed. A change in UIC disposal well regulations or the inability to obtain permits for new disposal wells in the future may affect our ability to dispose of produced water and ultimately increase the cost of our operations. For example, in response to recent seismic events near below ground disposal wells used for the injection of natural gas and oil related wastewaters, federal and some state agencies have begun investigating whether such wells have caused increased seismic activity, and some states have shut down or imposed moratoria on the use of such disposal wells. In response to these concerns, regulators in some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, additional requirements related to seismic safety. These seismic events have also led to an increase in tort lawsuits filed against exploration and production companies, as well as the owners of underground injection wells. Increased costs associated with the transportation and disposal of produced water, including the cost of complying with regulations concerning produced water disposal, may reduce our profitability; however, these costs are commonly incurred by all oil, natural gas and NGL producers, and we do not believe that the costs associated with the disposal of produced water will affect our operations in any way that is of material difference from those of our competitors who are similarly situated. Air Emissions The federal Clean Air Act (the CAA ) and comparable state laws restrict the emission of air pollutants from many sources, such as tank batteries, through air emissions standards, construction and operating permitting programs and the imposition of other compliance standards. These laws and regulations may require us to obtain pre approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce or significantly increase air emissions, obtain and strictly comply with stringent air permit requirements or utilize specific equipment or technologies to control emissions of certain pollutants. The need to obtain permits has the potential to delay the development of our projects. Recently, there has been increased regulation with respect to air emissions from the oil and natural gas sector. For example, the EPA promulgated rules in 2012 under the CAA that subject oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission and storage operations to regulation under the New Source Performance Standards ( NSPS ), and a separate set of requirements to address certain hazardous air pollutants frequently 19 Table of Contents associated with oil and natural gas production and processing activities pursuant to the National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants program. In June 2016, the EPA published final rules establishing new air emission controls for methane emissions from certain new, modified or reconstructed equipment and processes in the oil and natural gas source category, including production, processing, transmission and storage activities. The EPA final rules include NSPS to limit methane emissions from equipment and processes across the oil and natural gas source category. The rules also extend limitations on volatile organic compound ( VOC ) emissions to sources that were unregulated under the previous NSPS at Subpart OOOO. Affected methane and VOC sources include hydraulically fractured (or re fractured) oil and natural gas well completions, fugitive emissions from well sites and compressors, and pneumatic pumps. Several states and industry groups have filed suit before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (the D.C. Circuit ) challenging the EPA implementation of the methane rule and the EPA legal authority to issue the methane rules. However, in April 2017, the EPA announced that it will review its methane rule for new, modified and reconstructed sources and to initiate reconsideration proceedings to potentially revise or rescind portions of the rule. In addition, the EPA issued a stay of the June 3, 2017 compliance date applicable to fugitive emissions monitoring requirements for 90 days. In July 2017, the D.C. Circuit found that the EPA decision to issue the stay was not permissible under the CAA and vacated the stay, but subsequently issued a revised opinion allowing the agency to stay implementation of the rule for 2 weeks. However, in June 2017, the EPA issued a proposed rulemaking to stay the requirements of Subpart OOOOa for a period of 2 years and to revisit implementation of Subpart OOOOa in its entirety. In September 2018, the EPA proposed amendments to the 2016 rules that would reduce the 2016 rules fugitive emissions monitoring requirements and expand exceptions to controlling methane emissions from pneumatic pumps, among other changes. Various industry and environmental groups have separately challenged both the original 2016 methane requirements and EPA attempt to delay the implementation of the rule. As a result of these developments, future implementation of the standards is uncertain at this time. The Bureau of Land Management (the BLM ) also finalized rules (the BLM methane rule ) in November 2016 that seek to limit methane emissions from exploration and production activities on federal lands by imposing limitations on venting and flaring of natural gas, as well as requirements for the implementation of leak detection and repair programs for certain processes and equipment. However, President Trump issued an executive order directing the BLM to review and potentially repeal or revise the BLM methane rule. In June 2017 and October 2017, the BLM announced its intention to delay compliance with the requirements of the BLM methane rule until the agency can issue a revised rule. Also in October 2017, a federal magistrate judge found that the BLM did not have the authority to cease enforcing the rule. In December 2017, the BLM petiti1d the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to review and overturn the magistrate judge decision. Also in December 2017, the BLM issued a final rule postponing compliance dates for portions of the BLM methane rule until January 17, 2019. In September 2018, the BLM issued a final rule rescinding the agency November 2016 methane rule in its entirety. The EPA also finalized separate rules under the CAA in June 2016 regarding criteria for aggregating multiple sites into a single source for air quality permitting purposes applicable to the oil and natural gas industry. This rule could cause small facilities (such as tank batteries), on an aggregate basis, to be deemed a major source, thereby triggering more stringent air permitting requirements, which in turn could result in operational delays or require us to install costly pollution control equipment. In addition, in October 2015, the EPA issued a final rule under the CAA lowering the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ground level oz1 from the current standard of 75 parts per billion ( ppb ) for the current 8 hour primary and secondary oz1 standards to 70 ppb for both standards. The final rule became effective on December 28, 2015. The EPA issued its anticipated area designations in November and December 2017. States are expected to implement more stringent permitting and pollution control requirements as a result of this new final rule, which could apply to our operations. Compliance with 1 or more of these and other air pollution control and permitting requirements and rules has the potential to delay the development of natural gas, oil and NGL projects and increase our costs of development and production, which costs could be significant. Regulation of GHG Emissions In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases ( GHGs ) endanger public health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the CAA that, among other things, establish Prevention of Significant Deterioration ( PSD ) preconstruction and Title V operating permit reviews for certain large stationary sources that are already potential major sources of certain principal, or criteria, pollutant emissions. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions will also be required to meet best available control technology standards that will typically be established by state agencies. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from large GHG emission sources in the United States, including certain onshore and offshore natural gas, oil and NGL production sources, which include certain of our operations. As discussed above, federal regulatory action regarding GHG emissions from the oil and gas sector has focused on methane emissions; however, federal implementation of the finalized 2016 methane rule is uncertain at this time (as also discussed above). 20 Table of Contents While Congress has, from time to time, considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, no significant legislation has been adopted at the federal level. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional cap and trade programs have emerged that typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. In addition, the United States is 1 of almost 200 nations that, in December 2015, agreed to the Paris Agreement, an international climate change agreement in Paris, France that calls for countries to set their own GHG emissions targets and be transparent about the measures each country will take to achieve its GHG emissions targets. The Paris Agreement entered into force on November 4, 2016 upon achieving its threshold for ratification by signatory countries. A long term goal of the Paris Agreement is to limit global warming to below 2 degrees Celsius by 2100 from temperatures in the pre industrial era. However, the Paris Agreement does not impose any binding obligations on its participants. In June 2017, President Trump stated that the United States intends to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, but may enter into a future international agreement related to GHGs. In August 2017, the U.S. State Department officially informed the United Nations of its intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement unless it is renegotiated. The Paris Agreement provides for a four year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States adherence to the exit process is uncertain and the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how new laws or regulations that may be adopted or issued to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws, regulations or legal requirements imposing reporting or permitting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations, as well as delay or restrict our ability to permit GHG emissions from new or modified sources. In addition, substantial limitations on GHG emissions could adversely affect demand for the natural gas, oil and NGLs we produce and lower the value of our reserves. Finally, it should be noted that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts and other extreme climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our exploration and production operations. Hydraulic Fracturing Activities Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of oil, natural gas and NGLs from dense subsurface rock formations. We regularly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. However, several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, the EPA published final CAA regulations in 2012 and, more recently, in June 2016, establishing performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during oil and natural gas hydraulic fracturing, leak detection, and permitting; published in June 2016 an effluent limitation guideline final rule prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and natural gas extraction facilities to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants; and issued in 2014 a prepublication version of its Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding Toxic Substances Control Act ( TSCA ) reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. Also, in March 2015, the BLM adopted rules establishing stringent standards relating to hydraulic fracturing on federal and American Indian lands. In June 2016, a federal district court judge in Wyoming struck down this final rule, finding that the BLM lacked authority to promulgate the rule. That ruling was appealed, but in September 2017 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit dismissed the appeal and remanded with directions to vacate the lower court opinion, leaving the final rule in place. However, following the issuance of an executive order by President Trump to review rules related to the energy industry, the BLM initiated a rulemaking to rescind the final rule in December 2017. Shortly after the final rulemaking was issued, the state of California and several environmental groups filed lawsuits against the BLM, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Assistant Secretary for Land and Minerals Management, seeking an injunction and a declaration that the repeal violated numerous federal statutes. After the suits were filed, multiple industry groups and the state of Wyoming sought to intervene and transfer the case to federal court in Wyoming, which decided the initial legal challenge to the Obama administration fracking regulations. Those legal challenges are still pending. Also, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The final report concluded that water cycle activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under certain limited circumstances. From time to time, legislation has been introduced, but not enacted, in Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. Meanwhile, the regulation of hydraulic fracturing has continued at the state level. For example, Wyoming has promulgated rules related to the public disclosure of substances used in hydraulic fluid, testing requirements for water wells near drilling sites and leak detection and repair requirements for fugitive emissions from oil and gas production facilities. In the event that a new, federal level of legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process is adopted in areas where we operate, we may incur additional costs to comply with such federal requirements that may be significant in nature, and also could become subject to additional permitting requirements and experience added delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities. 21 Table of Contents Activities on Federal Lands and State Lands Oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activities on federal lands, including American Indian lands and lands administered by the BLM, are frequently subject to permitting delays. Operations on these lands are also subject to the National Environmental Policy Act ( NEPA ). NEPA requires federal agencies, including the BLM, to evaluate major actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an Environmental Assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed Environmental Impact Statement that may be made available for public review and comment. We currently have exploration, development and production activities on federal lands. Our proposed exploration, development and production activities are expected to include leasing of federal mineral interests, which will require the acquisition of governmental permits or authorizations that are subject to the requirements of NEPA. This process has the potential to delay or limit, or increase the cost of, the development of natural gas, oil and NGL projects. Authorizations under NEPA are also subject to protest, appeal or litigation, any or all of which may delay or halt projects. Moreover, depending on the mitigation strategies recommended in the Environmental Assessments or Environmental Impact Statements, we could incur added costs, which may be substantial. In addition, the New Mexico state legislature recently proposed House Bill 206, which, if passed, would enact an Environmental Review Act comparable to NEPA. Specifically, the Environmental Review Act would require state governmental agencies at all levels to consider the qualitative, technical and economic factors relating to a project that may impact public health, ecosystems and the environment, the long term as well as short term benefits and costs of the proposed project, the cumulative impacts of the proposed project, and reasonable alternatives to proposed actions affecting the environment, communities or public health. If enacted, the process contemplated by the Environmental Review Act has the potential, like NEPA, to delay or limit, or increase the cost of, the development of natural gas, oil and NGL projects in New Mexico, which costs could be substantial. ESA and Migratory Birds The federal Endangered Species Act ( ESA ) and comparable state laws were established to protect endangered and threatened species. Pursuant to the ESA, if a species is listed as threatened or endangered, restrictions may be imposed on activities adversely affecting that species habitat. Similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. We may conduct operations on oil and natural gas leases in areas where certain species that are listed as threatened or endangered are known to exist and where other species that potentially could be listed as threatened or endangered under the ESA may exist. Moreover, as a result of a 2011 settlement agreement, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (the FWS ) was required to make a determination on listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the ESA by no later than completion of the agency 2017 fiscal year. The FWS did not meet that deadline. If we were to have a portion of our leases designated as critical or suitable habitat, it could adversely impact the value of our leases. In addition, the federal government recently has issued indictments under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act to several oil and natural gas companies after migratory birds were found dead near reserve pits associated with drilling activities. The identification or designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where underlying property operations are conducted could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures, time delays or limitations on our exploration and production activities, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce reserves. If we were to have a portion of our leases designated as critical or suitable habitat, it could adversely impact the value of our leases. OSHA We are subject to the requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Act ( OSHA ) and comparable state statutes whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of workers. In addition, OSHA hazard communication standard, the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, comparable state statutes and any implementing regulations require that we organize and or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local governmental authorities and citizens. Related Permits and Authorizations Many environmental laws require us to obtain permits or other authorizations from state and or federal agencies before initiating certain drilling, construction, production, operation or other activities and to maintain these permits and compliance with their requirements for ongoing operations. These permits are generally subject to protest, appeal or litigation, which can in certain cases delay or halt projects and cease production or operation of wells, pipelines and other operations. Related Insurance We maintain insurance against some risks associated with above or underground contamination that may occur as a result of our development activities. However, this insurance is limited to activities at the well site and there can be no assurance that this insurance will continue to be commercially available or that this insurance will be available at premium levels that justify its 22 Table of Contents purchase by us. The occurrence of a significant event that is not fully insured or indemnified against could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. Further, we have no coverage for gradual, long term pollution events. Employees As of December 31, 2018 , we had 178 full time employees. We hire independent contractors on an as needed basis and have no collective bargaining agreements with our employees. Offices Our principal executive offices are located at 1001 Seventeenth Street, Suite 1800, Denver, Colorado 80202, and our teleph1 number is (720) 499 1400. We also have office space in Jal, New Mexico; Midland, Texas; Sugar Land, Texas; and Pecos, Texas. 23 Table of Contents Available Information Our internet website address is www.cdevinc.com. We routinely post important information for investors on our website. Within our website investor relations section, we make available free of charge our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under applicable securities laws. These materials are made available as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such materials with or furnish such materials to the SEC. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report and should not be considered part of this document. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The nature of our business activities subjects us to certain hazards and risks. The following risks and uncertainties, together with other information set forth in this Annual Report, should be carefully considered by current and future investors in our securities. These risks and uncertainties are not the only 1s we face. Additional risks and uncertainties presently unknown to us or currently deemed immaterial also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of 1 or more of these risks or uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition, and the results of our operations, which in turn could negatively impact the value of our securities. Risks Related to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Our Business Oil, natural gas and NGL prices are volatile. A sustained decline in oil, natural gas and NGL prices could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. The prices we receive for our oil, natural gas and NGLs production heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital, future rate of growth and carrying value of our properties. Oil, natural gas and NGLs are commodities, and their prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs and market uncertainty. Historically, oil, natural gas and NGL prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs; the price and quantity of foreign imports of oil, natural gas and NGLs; political and economic conditions in or affecting other producing regions or countries, including the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia; actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ), its members and other state controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the level of global exploration, development and production; the level of global inventories; prevailing prices on local price indexes in the area in which we operate; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities; localized and global supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability; the availability of refining and storage capacity; the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and transporting reserves; weather conditions and other natural disasters; technological advances affecting energy consumption; the price and availability of alternative fuels; expectations about future commodity prices; and U.S. federal, state and local and non U.S. governmental regulation and taxes. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. During the past five years, the WTI spot price for oil has declined from a high of $107.95 per Bbl in June 2014 to $26.19 per Bbl in February 2016, and the Henry Hub spot price for natural gas has declined from a high of $8.15 per MMBtu in February 2014 to a low of $149 per MMBtu in March 2016. Likewise, NGLs, which are made up of ethane, propane, isobutene, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics, have suffered significant recent price declines. In 2018, the WTI spot price reached $77.41 in June 2018, representing the highest spot price for the commodity since 2014, but the WTI spot prices sharply declined in the following months to a low of $44.48 in December 2018. In addition, lower commodity prices may reduce our cash flows and borrowing ability. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our ability to develop future reserves could be adversely affected. Also, using lower prices in estimating proved reserves may result in a reduction in proved reserve volumes due to economic limits. In addition, sustained periods with oil and natural gas prices at levels lower than current WTI or Henry Hub strip prices and the resultant effect such prices may have on our drilling economics and our ability to raise capital may require us to re evaluate and postp1 25 Table of Contents or eliminate our development drilling, which could result in the reduction of some of our proved undeveloped reserves and related standardized measure. If we are required to curtail our drilling program, we may be unable to continue to hold leases that are scheduled to expire, which may further reduce our reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in commodity prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to finance planned capital expenditures. Our development and acquisition projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our ability to access or grow production and reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures related to development and acquisition projects. We have funded our capital expenditures with cash generated by operations, borrowings under CRP revolving credit facility and the net proceeds from CRP issuance of senior notes. We intend to finance our capital expenditures with cash flow from operations, borrowings under CRP revolving credit facility and proceeds from offerings of debt and equity securities. The issuance of additional indebtedness would require that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, oil, natural gas and NGL prices; actual drilling results; the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment; and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. A reduction in commodity prices from current levels may result in a decrease in our actual capital expenditures, which would negatively impact our ability to grow production. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including the prices at which our production is sold; our proved reserves; the level of hydrocarbons we are able to produce from existing wells; our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; the levels of our operating expenses; and CRP ability to borrow under its revolving credit facility and the ability to access the capital markets. If our revenues or the borrowing base under CRP revolving credit facility decrease as a result of lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If cash flow generated by our operations or available borrowings under CRP revolving credit facility are not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our properties. This, in turn, could lead to a decline in our reserves and production, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Part of our strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application. Our operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers. Risks that we face while drilling horizontal wells include the following landing a wellbore in the desired drilling z1; staying in the desired drilling z1 while drilling horizontally through the formation; spacing the wells appropriately to maximize production rates and recoverable reserves; running our casing the entire length of the wellbore; and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. Risks that we face while completing wells include the following the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage; and the ability to prevent unintentional communication with other wells. 26 Table of Contents In addition, certain of the new techniques we are adopting, such as infilling drilling and multi well pad drilling, may cause irregularities or interruptions in production due, in the case of infill drilling, to offset wells being shut in and, in the case of multi well pad drilling, the time required to drill and complete multiple wells before any such wells begin producing. Furthermore, the results of our drilling in new or emerging formations are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Newer or emerging formations and areas have limited or no production history and, consequently, we are more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. If our drilling results are less than anticipated, the return on our investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as anticipated, and we could incur material write downs of unevaluated properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our development, acquisition and production activities, which are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil and natural gas production. Our decisions to develop or purchase prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. Further, many factors may curtail, delay, cancel or otherwise negatively impact our scheduled drilling projects, including the following delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements, including limitations resulting from wastewater disposal, emission of GHGs and limitations on hydraulic fracturing; pressure or irregularities in geological formations; shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, qualified personnel, water or sand for hydraulic fracturing activities; equipment failures, accidents or other unexpected operational events; lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities; lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines; adverse weather conditions; issues related to compliance with environmental regulations; environmental hazards, such as oil and natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment; declines in oil and natural gas prices; limited availability of financing at acceptable terms; title problems; and limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings. We enter into derivative instrument contracts for a portion of our oil and natural gas production from time to time. As of December 31, 2018 , we had entered into basis swaps through 2019 covering a total of 2,931 MBbls of our projected oil production and 128 million MMBtu of our projected natural gas production at a weighted average differential of $6.88 per Bbl and $131 per MMBtu, respectively. In addition, as of December 31, 2018 , we had entered into natural gas swaps covering a total of 16.4 million MMBtu of our projected natural gas production through December 2019 at a weighted average differential of $239 per MMBtu. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of our derivative instruments. 27 Table of Contents Derivative instruments also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than the volume covered by the derivative instruments; the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contractual obligations; there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and actual prices received; or there are issues with regard to legal enforceability of such instruments. The use of derivatives may, in some cases, require the posting of cash collateral with counterparties. If we enter into derivative instruments that require cash collateral and commodity prices or interest rates change in a manner adverse to us, our cash otherwise available for use in our operations would be reduced, which could limit our ability to make future capital expenditures and make payments on our indebtedness, and which could also limit the size of CRP borrowing base. Future collateral requirements will depend on arrangements with our counterparties, highly volatile oil and natural gas prices and interest rates. In addition, derivative arrangements could limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our commodity derivative contracts expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden decreases in a counterparty liquidity, which could make the counterparty unable to perform under the terms of the contract, and we may not be able to realize the benefit of the contract. We are unable to predict sudden changes in a counterparty credi2rthiness or ability to perform. Even if we accurately predict sudden changes, our ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions. During periods of declining commodity prices, our derivative contract receivable positions generally increase, which increases our counterparty credit exposure. If the credi2rthiness of our counterparties deteriorates and results in their nonperformance, we could incur a significant loss with respect to our commodity derivative contracts. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In order to prepare reserve estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary from our estimates. For instance, initial production rates reported by us or other operators may not be indicative of future or long term production rates, our recovery efficiencies may be worse than expected, and production declines may be greater than our estimates and may be more rapid and irregular when compared to initial production rates. In addition, we may adjust reserve estimates to reflect additional production history, results of development activities, current commodity prices and other existing factors. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our reserves is the current market value of our estimated reserves. We generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. For example, our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2018 , and related standardized measure were calculated under rules of the SEC using twelve month trailing average benchmark prices of $6204 per barrel of oil (WTI Posted) and $310 per MMBtu (Henry Hub spot), which may be substantially higher or lower than the available spot prices in 2019. If spot prices are below such calculated amounts, using more recent prices in estimating proved reserves may result in a reduction in proved reserve volumes due to economic limits. We will not be the operator on all of our acreage or drilling locations, and, therefore, we will not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non operated assets. As of December 31, 2018 , we have leased or acquired approximately 80,223 net acres, approximately 89% of which we operate. As of December 31, 2018 , we operated 263 gross producing horizontal wells. We will have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of the drilling locations operated by our partners, and there is the risk that our partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours. Furthermore, the success and timing of 28 Table of Contents development activities operated by our partners will depend on a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including the timing and amount of capital expenditures; the operator expertise and financial resources; the approval of other participants in drilling wells; the selection of technology; and the rate of production of reserves, if any. This limited ability to exercise control over the operations and associated costs of some of our drilling locations could prevent the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. Many of our properties are in areas that may have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells and certain of our wells may be adversely affected by actions other operators may take when drilling, completing, or operating wells that they own. Many of our properties are in areas that may have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling. The owners of leasehold interests adjoining any of our properties could take actions, such as drilling and completing additional wells, which could adversely affect our operations. When a new well is completed and produced, the pressure differential in the vicinity of the well causes the migration of reservoir fluids toward the new wellbore (and potentially away from existing wellbores). As a result, the drilling and production of these potential locations could cause a depletion of our proved reserves and may inhibit our ability to further develop our proved reserves. In addition, completion operations and other activities conducted on adjacent or nearby wells could cause production from our wells to be shut in for indefinite periods of time, could result in increased lease operating expenses and could adversely affect the production and reserves from our wells after they re commence production. We have no control over the operations or activities of offsetting operators. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the amount of capital that would be necessary to drill such locations. We have specifically identified and scheduled certain drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals, including permitting, and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the numerous identified drilling locations will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas or oil from these or any other drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the drilling locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage, the primary term is extended through continuous drilling provisions or the leases are renewed. As of December 31, 2018 , over 76% of our total net acreage was held by production. The leases for our net acreage not held by production will expire at the end of their primary term unless production is established in paying quantities under the units containing these leases, the leases are held beyond their primary terms under continuous drilling provisions or the leases are renewed. If our leases expire and we are unable to renew the leases, we will lose the right to develop the related properties. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors. Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Water is an essential comp1nt of deep shale oil and natural gas production during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Drought conditions have persisted in Texas in past years. These drought conditions have led some local water districts to restrict the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to protect local water supplies. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations, we may be unable to economically produce oil and natural gas, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 29 Table of Contents Our producing properties are located in the Delaware Basin, a sub basin of the Permian Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a single geographic area. All of our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Delaware Basin, a sub basin of the Permian Basin, primarily in West Texas. At December 31, 2018 , all of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, availability of equipment and personnel, water shortages or other drought or extreme weather related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or NGLs. In addition, the effect of fluctuations on supply and demand may become more pronounced within specific geographic oil and natural gas producing areas such as the Permian Basin, which may cause these conditions to occur with greater frequency or magnify the effects of these conditions. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties. Such delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, production of oil and natural gas in the Permian Basin has increased significantly over the last few years and the resulting volumes have begun to exceed the pipeline takeaway capacity from the Permian Basin. This constraint in pipeline takeaway capacity led to lower prevailing market prices for oil and natural gas in the Permian Basin in 2018, with the differential between Permian pricing and the broader WTI benchmark price exceeding $16.00 per Bbl in September and the differential between Permian pricing and the broader Henry Hub spot price of natural gas exceeded $235 per MMBtu in November. Because of our concentration in the Permian Basin, the realized prices we received for all of our unhedged volumes of oil and natural gas were negatively affected by these regional price differentials. Pipeline capacity for oil and natural gas from the Permian Basin is expected to increase in 2019 and 2020, but until those projects are completed, prevailing prices in the Permian Basin may remain suppressed or decline further, which could negatively affect the realized price we receive for the sale of our oil and natural gas volumes, increase counterparty risk associated with the firm transportation agreements we have put in place relating to our oil and natural gas volume sales and overall increase the risk of us being able to transport all of our oil and natural gas volumes to market. The marketability of our production is dependent upon transportation and other facilities, certain of which we do not control. If these facilities are unavailable, or if we are unable to access these facilities on commercially reasonable terms, our operations could be interrupted and our revenues reduced. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities owned by third parties. Our oil production is generally transported from the wellhead by gathering systems that are either owned by us or third party midstream companies, although some of our oil is initially transported by truck to a transportation facility. Our natural gas production is generally transported by gathering lines that are owned either by us or third party midstream companies from the wellhead to a gas processing facility. In general, we do not control these trucks and other third party transportation facilities and our access to them may be limited or denied. In some instances, we have contractual guarantees relating to the transportation of our production through firm transportation arrangements, but third party systems may be temporarily unavailable due to market conditions, mechanical failures, accidents or other reasons. Insufficient production from our wells to support the construction of pipeline facilities by our purchasers or third party midstream companies or a significant disruption in the availability of our or third party transportation facilities or other production facilities could adversely impact our ability to deliver to market or produce our oil and natural gas and thereby cause a significant interruption in our operations. If, in the future, we are unable, for any sustained period, to implement acceptable delivery or transportation arrangements or encounter production related difficulties, we may be required to shut in or curtail production or flare our natural gas. If we were required to shut in wells, we might also be obligated to pay certain demand charges for gathering and processing services and firm transportation charges for pipeline capacity we have reserved. Any such shut in or curtailment, or an inability to obtain favorable terms for delivery of the oil and natural gas produced from our fields, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents We have entered into multi year agreements with some of our suppliers, service providers and the purchasers of our oil and natural gas, which contain minimum volume commitments. Any failure by us to satisfy the minimum volume commitments could lead to contractual penalties that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We have entered into certain multi year supply and service agreements, including contracts for drilling rigs, water disposal agreements and purchase agreements relating to frac and sand products. We also have various multi year agreements that relate to the sale, transportation or gathering of our oil and natural gas. Some of these agreements contain minimum volume commitments that we must satisfy or contractual penalties in form of volume deficiencies or other remedies may apply. As of December 31, 2018, our aggregate long term contractual obligation under these agreements was $140.1 million . Further information about these agreements can be found at Note 14 Commitments and Contingencies , in I, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual. Any failure by us to satisfy the minimum volume commitments in these agreements could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we typically obtain title opinions prior to commencing drilling operations on a lease or in a unit, the failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property. The development of our estimated PUDs may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our estimated PUDs may not be ultimately developed or produced. As of December 31, 2018 , 56% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. Development of these proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Delays in the development of our reserves, increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves or decreases in commodity prices will reduce the value of our estimated PUDs and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our PUDs as unproved reserves. Further, we may be required to write down our PUDs if we do not drill those wells within five years after their respective dates of booking. If commodity prices decrease to a level such that our future undiscounted cash flows from our properties are less than their carrying value, we may be required to take write downs of the carrying values of our properties. Accounting guidance requires that we periodically review the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on prevailing commodity prices and specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our properties. A write down constitutes a non cash charge to earnings. Recently, commodity prices have declined significantly. Lower commodity prices in the future could result in impairments of our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. Unless we replace our reserves with new reserves and develop those reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our future cash flows and results of operations. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Unless we conduct successful ongoing exploration and development activities or continually acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Our future reserves and production, and therefore our future cash flows and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace our current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend upon a small number of significant purchasers for the sale of most of our oil, natural gas and NGL production. We normally sell production to a relatively small number of customers, as is customary in our business. For the year ended December 31, 2018 , sales to Shell Trading (US) Company ( Shell ), BP America and Eagleclaw Midstream Ventures, LLC ( Eagleclaw ) accounted for 19% , 18% and 12% , respectively, of our net revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2017, sales 31 Table of Contents to Shell, BP America and Eagleclaw accounted for 33% , 16% and 14% , respectively, of our net revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2016, sales to Plains Marketing, LP , Shell and Permian Transport and Trading accounted for 48% , 22% , and 11% , respectively, of our net revenue. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue during these periods. The loss of any of our major purchasers could materially and adversely affect our revenues in the near term. Our operations may be exposed to significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and occupational health and safety requirements applicable to our business activities. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, health and safety aspects of our operations or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of a permit or other approval before conducting regulated activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. Such enforcement actions often involve taking difficult and costly compliance measures or corrective actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, natural resource damages, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, and the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations. In addition, we may experience delays in obtaining, or be unable to obtain, required permits, which may delay or interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue. Certain environmental laws impose strict joint and several liability for costs required to remediate and restore sites where hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or solid wastes have been stored or released. We may be required to remediate contaminated properties currently or formerly operated by us or facilities of third parties that received waste generated by our operations regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In connection with certain acquisitions, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose us to material losses. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage if an environmental claim is made against us. Moreover, public interest in the protection of the environment has increased dramatically in recent years. The trend of more expansive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations applied to the crude oil and natural gas industry could continue, resulting in increased costs of doing business and consequently affecting profitability. To the extent laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restricts drilling or imposes more stringent and costly operating, waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements, our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or our insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our development activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable releases of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater, air and shoreline contamination; abnormally pressured formations; mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and casing collapse; fire, explosions and ruptures of pipelines; personal injuries and death; natural disasters; and terrorist attacks targeting oil and natural gas related facilities and infrastructure. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for injury or loss of life; 32 Table of Contents damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; pollution and other environmental damage; regulatory investigations and penalties; and repair and remediation costs. We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Properties that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. Properties that we decide to drill that do not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or be economically viable. The use of micro seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities. We cannot assure you that the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields will be applicable to our drilling prospects. Multi well pad drilling may result in volatility in our operating results. We utilize multi well pad drilling where practical. Because wells drilled on a pad are not brought into production until all wells on the pad are drilled and completed and the drilling rig is moved from the location, multi well pad drilling delays the commencement of production from a given pad, which may cause volatility in our quarterly operating results. We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow. In the future we may make acquisitions of assets or businesses that complement or expand our current business. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors, including recoverable reserves; future oil and natural gas prices and their applicable differentials; operating costs; and potential environmental and other liabilities. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. We often are not entitled to contractual indemnification for environmental liabilities and acquire properties on an as is basis. The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired business into our existing operations. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our managerial and financial resources. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and purchase prices higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, debt agreements impose certain limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions and our ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our ability to engage in acquisitions of businesses. Some of our reserves are located near urban areas, which could increase our costs of development and delay production. Some of our reserves are located near urban areas, including the city of Pecos, Texas. If these urban areas expand and develop the area around our operations or the surface above our wells, or if we expand our operations closer to the urban areas, we may be exposed to additional operational and regulatory risk in that area. In such event, we may incur additional expenses, including 33 Table of Contents expenses relating to mitigation of noise, odor and light that may be emitted in our operations, expenses related to the appearance of our facilities and limitations regarding when and how we can operate. The process of obtaining permits for drilling or for gathering lines to move our production to market in such areas may also be more time consuming and costly than in more rural areas. The costs we incur to comply with such restrictions may be significant in nature, and we may experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of development activities and perhaps even be precluded from the drilling of wells. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our development plans within our budget and on a timely basis. The demand for drilling rigs, pipe and other equipment and supplies, as well as for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry, can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Our operations are concentrated in areas in which activity has increased rapidly, and as a result, demand for such drilling rigs, equipment and personnel, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas, has increased, as have the costs for those Item. In addition, to the extent our suppliers source their products or raw materials from foreign markets, the cost of such equipment could be impacted if the United States imposes tariffs on imported goods from countries where these goods are produced. For example, the steel we use for pipes, valve fittings and other equipment is generally imported from other countries, and the price for steel has risen significantly in 2018 due at least in part to the 25% tariff imposed by United States on imported steel. We cannot predict whether these conditions will exist in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration will be. Such shortages or cost increases could delay or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. These increases could reduce our profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. Historically, our capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, natural gas and NGL prices. These cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond our control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that we and our vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. Such costs may rise faster than increases in our revenue as commodity prices rise, thereby negatively impacting our profitability, cash flows and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. This impact may be magnified to the extent that our ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by our derivative activities. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the EP Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA and the NGPA to impose penalties for current violations of up to approximately $13 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non FERC jurisdictional operations to FERC annual reporting and posting requirements. We also must comply with the anti market manipulation rules enforced by FERC. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce, while potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations pursuant to the CAA that, among other things, require PSD preconstruction and Title V operating permits for certain large stationary sources. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions are also required to meet best available control technology standards that are being established by the states or, in some cases, by the EPA on a case by case basis. These regulatory requirements could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production sources in the United States, which include certain of our operations. Furthermore, in June 2016, the EPA finalized rules that establish new controls for emissions of methane from new, modified or reconstructed sources in the oil and natural gas source category, including production, processing, transmission and storage activities. The rule includes first time standards to address emissions of methane from equipment and processes across the source category, including hydraulically fractured oil and natural gas well completions. However, the EPA recently indicated that it intends to reconsider certain aspects of this rule, and in June 2017 issued a proposed rulemaking that would stay the requirements of the methane rule for a period of 2 years. In September 2018, the EPA proposed amendments to the 2016 standards that would reduce the rule fugitive emissions monitoring requirements and expand exceptions to controlling methane emissions from pneumatic pumps, among other charges. The EPA has also announced 34 Table of Contents that it intends to impose methane emission standards for existing sources as well but, to date, has not yet issued a proposal. Compliance with these rules will require enhanced record keeping practices, the purchase of new equipment, such as optical gas imaging instruments to detect leaks, and increased frequency of maintenance and repair activities to address emissions leakage. The rules will also likely require additional personnel time to support these activities or the engagement of third party contractors to assist with and verify compliance. These new and proposed rules could result in increased compliance costs on our operations. While Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted legislation to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs. These programs typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. In addition, efforts have been made and continue to be made in the international community toward the adoption of international treaties or protocols that would address global climate change issues. The United States became 1 of almost 200 nations that, in December 2015, agreed to the Paris Agreement, which requires member countries to review and represent a progression in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals, every five years beginning in 2020. The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016. In June 2017, President Trump announced that the United States plans to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and to seek negotiations either to reenter the Paris Agreement on different terms or establish a new framework. In August 2017, the U.S. Department of State officially informed the United Nations of the United States intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement unless it is renegotiated. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. Substantial limitations on GHG emissions could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells and adversely affect our production. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of oil and or natural gas from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, proppants and chemicals under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We regularly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the SDWA over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and published permitting guidance in February 2014 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. The EPA has also issued final regulations under the CAA establishing performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during hydraulic fracturing (although the Trump Administration has indicated an intent to review this rule), and advanced notice of proposed rulemaking under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, and also finalized rules in 2016 that prohibit the discharge of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants. In addition, the BLM finalized rules in March 2015 that impose new or more stringent standards for performing hydraulic fracturing on federal and American Indian lands (which was challenged in a U.S. federal trial court, resulting in a decision in June 2016 against the rule, an appeal of that decision, and a U.S. federal appeals court ruling in September 2017 dismissing the appeals and vacating the trial court decision); the rule is currently the subject of a December 2017 final rulemaking by the BLM to rescind it. Shortly after the final rulemaking was issued, the state of California and several environmental groups filed lawsuits against the BLM, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Assistant Secretary for Land and Minerals Management, seeking an injunction and a declaration that the repeal violated numerous federal statutes. After the suits were filed, multiple industry groups and the state of Wyoming sought to intervene and transfer the case to federal court in Wyoming, which decided the initial legal challenge to the Obama administration fracking regulations. Those legal challenges are still pending. In addition, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. It is unclear how any additional federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing activities may affect our operations. Certain governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. Additionally, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The EPA report concluded that hydraulic fracturing activities have not led to widespread, systemic impacts on drinking water resources in the United States, although there are above and below ground mechanisms by which hydraulic fracturing activities have the potential to impact drinking water resources. Other governmental 35 Table of Contents agencies, including the United States Department of Energy and the United States Department of the Interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the federal SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. For example, in May 2013, the Railroad Commission of Texas issued a well integrity rule, which updates the requirements for drilling, putting pipe down and cementing wells. The rule also includes new testing and reporting requirements, such as (i) the requirement to submit cementing reports after well completion or after cessation of drilling, whichever is later, and (ii) the imposition of additional testing on wells less than 1,000 feet below usable groundwater. The well integrity rule took effect in January 2014. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. We believe that we follow applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in our hydraulic fracturing activities. N1theless, if new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of development activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. Legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity could restrict our drilling and production activities, as well as our ability to dispose of saltwater gathered from such activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. State and federal regulatory agencies recently have focused on a possible connection between the hydraulic fracturing related activities, particularly the underground injection of wastewater into disposal wells, and the increased occurrence of seismic activity, and regulatory agencies at all levels are continuing to study the possible linkage between oil and gas activity and induced seismicity. For example, in 2015, the United States Geological Study identified eight states, including Texas, with areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction. In addition, a number of lawsuits have been filed in other states, most recently in Oklahoma, alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. In response to these concerns, regulators in some states are seeking to impose additional requirements, including requirements in the permitting of saltwater disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, in October 2014, the Railroad Commission of Texas published a new rule governing permitting or re permitting of disposal wells that would require, among other things, the submission of information on seismic events occurring within a specified radius of the disposal well location, as well as logs, geologic cross sections and structure maps relating to the disposal area in question. If the permittee or an applicant of a disposal well permit fails to demonstrate that the saltwater or other fluids are confined to the disposal z1 or if scientific data indicates such a disposal well is likely to be or determined to be contributing to seismic activity, then the agency may deny, modify, suspend or terminate the permit application or existing operating permit for that well. We dispose of large volumes of saltwater gathered from our drilling and production operations pursuant to permits issued to us by governmental authorities overseeing such disposal activities. While these permits are issued pursuant to existing laws and regulations, these legal requirements are subject to change, which could result in the imposition of more stringent operating constraints or new monitoring and reporting requirements, owing to, among other things, concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such gathering or disposal activities. Furthermore, regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. It may be costly and time consuming to comply with requirements imposed by these authorities, and compliance may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of our exploration and production. The adoption and implementation of any new laws or regulations that restrict our ability to use hydraulic fracturing or dispose of saltwater gathered from our drilling and production activities by limiting volumes, disposal rates, disposal well locations or otherwise, or requiring us to shut down disposal wells, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil or natural gas and secure trained personnel. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, other companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel has increased over the past 3 years due to competition and may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring 36 Table of Contents prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect operations. We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. At December 31, 2018 , we had $300.0 million in borrowings outstanding under our credit facility. Interest is calculated under the terms of CRP credit agreement based on a LIBOR spread. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. Our use of seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations. Even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. As a result, our drilling activities may not be successful or economical. In addition, the use of advanced technologies, such as 3 D seismic data, requires greater pre drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of such expenditures. Restrictions on drilling activities intended to protect certain species of wildlife may adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in areas where we operate. Oil and natural gas operations in our operating areas may be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions on drilling activities designed to protect various wildlife. Seasonal restrictions may limit our ability to operate in protected areas and can intensify competition for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages when drilling is allowed. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations or materially increase our operating and capital costs. Permanent restrictions imposed to protect endangered species could prohibit drilling in certain areas or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures. The designation of previously unprotected species in areas where we operate as threatened or endangered could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on our activities that could have a material and adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce our reserves. The enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd Frank Act ), enacted on July 21, 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over the counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. Title VII of the Dodd Frank Act requires the CFTC, the SEC and the prudential regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the derivatives related provisions of the Dodd Frank Act. While most of these regulations are already in effect, the implementation process is still ongoing and the CFTC continues to review and refine its initial rulemakings through additional interpretations and supplemental rulemakings. As a result, we cannot yet predict the ultimate effect of the regulations on our business and, while most of the regulations have been adopted, any new regulations or modifications to existing regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, and reduce our ability to m1tize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less credi2rthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd Frank Act and implementing regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on us and our financial condition. The CFTC has re proposed position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents, although certain bona fide hedging transactions would be exempt from these position limits 37 Table of Contents provided that various conditions are satisfied. The CFTC has also finalized a related aggregation rule that requires market participants to aggregate their positions with certain other persons under common ownership and control, unless an exemption applies, for purposes of determining whether the position limits have been exceeded. If adopted, the revised position limits rule and its finalized companion rule on aggregation may have an impact on our ability to hedge exposure to price fluctuation of certain commodities. In addition to the CFTC federal position limit regime, designated contract markets ( DCMs ) also have established position limit and accountability regimes. We may have to modify trading decisions or liquidate positions to avoid exceeding such limits or at the direction of the exchange to comply with accountability levels. Further, any such position limit regime, whether imposed at the federal or at the DCM level may impose added operating costs to monitor compliance with such position limit levels, addressing accountability level concerns and maintaining appropriate exemptions, if applicable. The Dodd Frank Act requires that certain classes of swaps be cleared on a derivatives clearing organization ( DCO ) and traded on a regulated exchange, unless exempt from such clearing and trading requirements, which could result in the application of certain margin requirements imposed by DCOs and their members. The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing. The CFTC has not yet proposed rules designating any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing. In addition, certain banking regulators and the CFTC have adopted final rules establishing minimum margin requirements for uncleared swaps entered into between swap dealers and certain other counterparties. We expect to qualify for and rely upon an end user exception from the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements for swaps entered into to hedge our commercial risks. While we also expect to qualify for and rely upon an exception from the uncleared swap margin requirements for swaps entered into to hedge our commercial risks, the application of such requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. If any of our swaps do not qualify for the commercial end user exception, posting of collateral could impact liquidity and reduce cash available to us for capital expenditures, therefore reducing our ability to execute hedges to reduce risk and protect cash flow. In addition, the European Union and other non U.S. jurisdictions have adopted and are implementing local regulations with respect to the derivatives market which are generally comparable to the reforms under the Dodd Frank Act. Implementation and enforcement of these regulatory provisions may reduce our ability to hedge our market risks with counterparties in foreign jurisdictions, and may make transactions involving cross border swaps more expensive and burdensome. Additionally, the lack of regulatory equivalence across jurisdictions may increase compliance costs and make it more difficult to satisfy our regulatory obligations. The standardized measure of our estimated reserves is not an accurate estimate of the current fair value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. Standardized measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and natural gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. Standardized measure requires the use of specific pricing as required by the SEC as well as operating and development costs prevailing as of the date of computation. Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and natural gas production because of varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and natural gas properties. As a result, estimates included herein of future net cash flow may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received, and the standardized measure of our estimated reserves included in this Annual Report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current fair value of our proved reserves. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or may be forced by competitive pressures to implement those new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, other oil and natural gas companies may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and that may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures or implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If 1 or more of the technologies we use now or in the future were to become obsolete, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. A security interruption or failure with respect to our information technology systems could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Our ability to effectively manage and operate our business depends significantly on information technology systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively and support our operations, challenges in transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in integrating new or updated systems, or a breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the operations of our business. 38 Table of Contents Any breach of our ne2rk may result in the loss of valuable business data, misappropriation of our customers or employees personal information, or a disruption of our business, which could harm our customer relationships and reputation, and result in lost revenues, fines or lawsuits. Moreover, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data. Any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks. Misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, damage to our reputation and credibility, and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. Changes in laws or regulations, or a failure to comply with any laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business, investments and results of operations. We are subject to laws, regulations and rules enacted by national, regional and local governments and NASDAQ. In particular, we are required to comply with certain SEC, NASDAQ and other legal or regulatory requirements. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws, regulations and rules may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws, regulations and rules and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and rules, as interpreted and applied, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Unanticipated changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in the United States, and our domestic tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expected timing and amount of the release of any tax valuation allowances; tax effects of stock based compensation; costs related to intercompany restructurings; changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof; or lower than anticipated future earnings in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated future earnings in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory tax rates. In addition, we may be subject to audits of our income, sales and other transaction taxes by U.S. federal and state authorities. Outcomes from these audits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Future regulations relating to and interpretations of the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Jobs Act ) was signed into law on December 22, 2017. Among other things, the Jobs Act reduces the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, and allows the expensing of capital expenditures. The Jobs Act is highly complex and subject to interpretation. The presentation of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our current interpretation of the provisions contained in the Jobs Act. The Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service continue to release regulations relating to and interpretive guidance of the legislation contained in the Jobs Act. Any significant variance of our current interpretation of such legislation from any future regulations or interpretive guidance could result in a change to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our business. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business prospects and our ability to make payments on our outstanding debt. As of December 31, 2018 , we had approximately $6916 million of total long term debt and additional borrowing capacity of $499.2 million under CRP revolving credit facility (after giving effect to $0.8 million of outstanding letters of credit). Our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our existing debt, thereby reducing the cash available to finance our operations and other business activities; 39 Table of Contents limit management discretion in operating our business and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; increase our vulnerability to downturns and adverse developments in our business and the economy generally; limit our ability to access the capital markets to raise capital on favorable terms or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other expenses or to refinance existing indebtedness; place restrictions on our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations; make it more likely that a reduction in CRP borrowing base following a periodic redetermination could require CRP to repay a portion of its then outstanding bank borrowings; make us vulnerable to increases in interest rates as the indebtedness under CRP revolving credit facility may vary with prevailing interest rates; place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors with lower levels of indebtedness in relation to their overall size or less restrictive terms governing their indebtedness; and make it more difficult for CRP to satisfy its obligations under its debt and increase the risk that we may default on its debt obligations. CRP may incur substantial additional indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks that we may face. Subject to the restrictions in the instruments governing CRP outstanding indebtedness (including CRP revolving credit facility and senior notes), CRP and its subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness (including secured indebtedness) in the future. Although the instruments governing CRP outstanding indebtedness do contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions will be subject to waiver and a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. As of December 31, 2018 , CRP had additional borrowing capacity of $499.2 million under its revolving credit facility (after giving effect to $0.8 million of outstanding letters of credit), all of which would be secured if borrowed. Any increase in CRP level of indebtedness and leverage will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation result in additional cash requirements to support the payment of interest on CRP outstanding indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and depending on the levels of CRP outstanding indebtedness, may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of CRP indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy CRP obligations under applicable debt instruments, which may not be successful. CRP ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance its indebtedness depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit CRP to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on CRP indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance CRP indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require CRP to comply with more 1rous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm CRP ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet debt service and other obligations. The agreements governing CRP indebtedness restrict CRP ability to dispose of assets and CRP use of the proceeds from such disposition. CRP may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and the proceeds of any such disposition may not be adequate to meet 40 Table of Contents any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit CRP to meet scheduled debt service obligations. Restrictions in CRP existing and future debt agreements could limit our growth and ability to engage in certain activities. CRP credit agreement and the indenture governing its senior notes contain a number of significant covenants, including restrictive covenants that may limit CRP ability to, among other things incur additional indebtedness; make loans to others; make investments; merge or consolidate with another entity; make certain payments; hedge future production or interest rates; incur liens; sell assets; and engage in certain other transactions without the prior consent of the lenders. In addition, CRP credit agreement requires us to maintain certain financial ratios or to reduce our indebtedness if we are unable to comply with such ratios. As of December 31, 2018, we were in full compliance with such financial ratios and covenants. The restrictions in CRP debt agreements may also limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive imposed on CRP. A breach of any covenant in CRP debt agreements would result in a default under the applicable agreement after any applicable grace periods. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the indebtedness outstanding under CRP credit agreement and in a default with respect to, and an acceleration of, the indebtedness outstanding under other debt agreements. The accelerated indebtedness would become immediately due and payable. If that occurs, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. If CRP is unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing its indebtedness, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements, which could result in an acceleration of payment of funds that CRP has borrowed. Any default under the agreements governing CRP indebtedness that is not cured or waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of any such indebtedness, could make CRP unable to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on such indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on CRP indebtedness, or if CRP otherwise fails to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the agreements governing CRP indebtedness, CRP could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest; the lenders under CRP revolving credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets; and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers under CRP revolving credit facility to avoid CRP being in default. If CRP breaches the covenants under its revolving credit facility and seeks a waiver, CRP may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, CRP would be in default under the revolving credit facility, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 41 Table of Contents Any significant reduction in the borrowing base under CRP revolving credit facility as a result of the periodic borrowing base redeterminations or otherwise may negatively impact our ability to fund our operations. CRP revolving credit facility limits the amounts CRP can borrow up to a borrowing base amount, which the lenders, in their sole discretion, determine semiannually in the spring and fall. The borrowing base depends on, among other things, projected revenues from, and asset values of, the oil and natural gas properties securing the loan. The borrowing base will automatically be decreased by an amount equal to 25% of the aggregate notional amount of issued permitted senior unsecured notes. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under CRP revolving credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of the lenders holding 100% of the commitments. On November 2, 2018, the borrowing base under the revolving credit facility was increased from $800.0 million to $10 billion , and the lenders increased their aggregate elected commitments from $600.0 million to $800.0 million . In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under CRP revolving credit facility (or a replacement facility) as a result of a decrease in the borrowing base due to the issuance of new indebtedness, the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination or an unwillingness or inability on the part of lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations and the inability of other lenders to provide additional funding to cover the defaulting lender portion. Declines in commodity prices could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base in the future and, in such case, CRP could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the redetermined borrowing base. As a result, we may be unable to implement our respective drilling and development plan, make acquisitions or otherwise carry out business plans, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service CRP indebtedness. If we experience liquidity concerns, we could face a downgrade in our debt ratings which could restrict our access to, and negatively impact the terms of, current or future financings or trade credit. Our ability to obtain financings and trade credit and the terms of any financings or trade credit is, in part, dependent on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies. We cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales and near term and long term production growth opportunities, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix and commodity pricing levels. A ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability to access financings or trade credit and increase our borrowing costs. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock and Capital Structure Our only significant asset is our current ownership of an approximate 96% membership interest in CRP. Distributions from CRP may not be sufficient to allow us to pay any dividends on our Class A Common Stock or satisfy our other financial obligations. We have no direct operations and no significant assets other than our current ownership of an approximate 96% membership interest in CRP. We will depend on CRP for distributions, loans and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations or to pay any dividends with respect to our Class A Common Stock. Subject to certain restrictions, CRP generally will be required to (i) make pro rata distributions to its members, including us, in an amount at least sufficient to allow us to pay our taxes and (ii) reimburse us for certain corporate and other overhead expenses. However, legal and contractual restrictions in agreements governing future indebtedness of CRP, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of CRP may limit our ability to obtain cash from CRP. The earnings from, or other available assets of, CRP may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable us to pay any dividends on our Class A Common Stock or satisfy our other financial obligations. We are subject to certain requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 or if we or our auditors identify and report material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, our investors may lose confidence in our reported information and our stock price may be negatively affected. We are required to comply with certain provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes Oxley Act ). Section 404 requires that we document and test our internal control over financial reporting and issue management assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. This section also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm opine on those internal controls. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, or if we or our auditors identify and report material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of the filing of our annual and quarterly reports may be materially adversely affected and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could result in an increased chance of fraud and the loss of customers, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures to comply with these requirements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 42 Table of Contents We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company, which may significantly affect our financial condition. We completed our initial public offering in February 2016. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we would not incur as a private company. We also incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements and with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. These rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming and costly. These rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. If the price of our Class A Common Stock fluctuates significantly, your investment could lose value. Although our Class A Common Stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we cannot assure you that an active public market will continue for our Class A Common Stock. If an active public market for our Class A Common Stock does not continue, the trading price and liquidity of our Class A Common Stock will be materially and adversely affected. If there is a thin trading market or float for our Class A Common Stock, the market price for our Class A Common Stock may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. Without a large float, our Class A Common Stock would be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our Class A Common Stock may be more volatile. In addition, in the absence of an active public trading market, investors may be unable to liquidate their investment in us. Furthermore, the stock market is subject to significant price and volume fluctuations, and the price of our Class A Common Stock could fluctuate widely in response to several factors, including Factors affecting the trading price of our Class A Common Stock may include actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in the market expectations about our operating results; actual or anticipated impacts of oil, natural gas and NGL takeaway capacity out of the Permian Basin; success of competitors; our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning us or its markets in general; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; our ability to market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; commencement of, or involvement in, litigation involving us; changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; the volume of securities available for public sale; additions or departures of key personnel; sales of substantial amounts of our Class A Common Stock by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur; and general economic and political conditions such as recession; interest rate, fuel price, and international currency fluctuations; and acts of war or terrorism. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have significantly affected the quoted prices of the securities of many companies, including companies in our industry. For example, in the last quarter of 2018, the closing price per share of our common stock as reported by The NASDAQ Capital Market ranged from a high of $2275 per share in October to a low of $10.04 per share in December. The changes often appear to occur without regard to specific operating performance. The price of our Class A Common Stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. 43 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our securities adversely, the price and trading volume of our securities could decline. The trading market for our securities will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors. Securities and industry analysts do not currently, and may never, publish research on us. If no securities or industry analysts commence coverage of us, our stock price and trading volume would likely be negatively impacted. If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendation regarding our securities adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our securities would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on it, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Riverst1 and its affiliates own a significant percentage of our outstanding voting common stock. Riverst1 and its affiliates beneficially own approximately 28% of our voting common stock as of December 31, 2018 . As long as Riverst1 and its affiliates own or control a significant percentage of outstanding voting power, they will have the ability to strongly influence all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and the size of our board of directors, any amendment of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation (the Charter ) or amended and restated bylaws (the Bylaws ), or the approval of any merger or other significant corporate transaction, including a sale of substantially all of our assets. The interests of Riverst1 and its affiliates may not align with the interests of our other stockholders. Riverst1 is in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Riverst1 and its affiliates may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. In addition, our Charter provides that we renounce any interest or expectancy in the business opportunities of our officers and directors and their respective affiliates and each such party shall not have any obligation to offer us those opportunities unless presented to 1 of our directors or officers in his or her capacity as a director or officer. Anti takeover provisions contained in our Charter and Bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our Charter and Bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; the ability of our board of directors to determine whether to issue shares of our preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; the requirement that an annual meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of stockholder meetings; providing that directors may be removed prior to the expiration of their terms by stockholders only for cause; and advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company. These provisions, al1 or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of the Company or changes in our board of directors and management. 44 Table of Contents As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding voting common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding voting common stock. Any provision of our Charter or Bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their securities and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our securities. Non U.S. holders may be subject to U.S. income tax with respect to gain on disposition of their Class A Common Stock. We believe that we are a United States real property holding corporation. As a result, Non U.S. holders (defined below in the section entitled Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations ) that own (or are treated as owning under constructive ownership rules) more than a specified amount of our Class A Common Stock during a specified time period may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on a sale, exchange, or other disposition of such Class A Common Stock and may be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return. If you are a Non U.S. holder, we urge you to consult your tax advisors regarding the tax consequences of such treatment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS N1 ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
