CIK: 1659122
Company Name: ROSEHILL RESOURCES INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-03-29
Accession Number: 0001628280-19-003615


ITEM 1 BUSINESS Overview Rosehill Resources Inc. (the Company, Rosehill Resources, we, us, or our ) is an independent oil and natural gas company focused on the acquisition, exploration, development and production of unconventional oil and associated liquids rich natural gas reserves in the Permian Basin. Our assets are concentrated in the Delaware Basin, a sub basin of the Permian Basin. We have drilling locations in ten distinct formations in the Delaware Basin in l Brushy Canyon l Wolfcamp A (X Y) l Upper and Lower Avalon l Lower Wolfcamp A l 2nd and 3rd B1 Spring Shale l Wolfcamp B l 2nd and 3rd B1 Spring Sand Our goal is to build a premier development and acquisition company focused on horizontal drilling in the Delaware Basin. We have no direct operations and no significant assets other than our ownership interest in Rosehill Operating Company, LLC ( Rosehill Operating), an entity for which we act as the sole managing member and of whose common units we currently own approximately 316% (or 431% assuming the conversion of Rosehill Operating Series A preferred units into Rosehill Operating common units). Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 ( Class A Common Stock ), and 1 warrant ( Public Warrant ), were issued in our initial public offering. Our Class A Common Stock Public Warrants and Units trade on The NASDAQ Capital Market ( NASDAQ ) under the ticker symbols ROSE, ROSEW, and ROSEU, respectively. Presentation of Financial and Operating Data On April 27, 2017, the Company was formed when KLR Energy Acquisition Corporation ( KLRE ) acquired a portion of the equity interests of Rosehill Operating, an entity into which Tema Oil & Gas Company ( Tema ), a wholly owned subsidiary of Rosemore, Inc. ( Rosemore ), contributed certain assets and liabilities (the Transaction ). Following the Transaction, KLRE changed its name to Rosehill Resources Inc. and became the sole managing member of Rosehill Operating. The consolidated financial results of the Company consist of the financial results of Rosehill Resources, Inc. and Rosehill Operating, its consolidated subsidiary. Because Tema had effective control of the combined company before and after the consummation of the Transaction on April 27, 2017 through its majority voting interest in Rosehill Operating and the Company, respectively, the Transaction was structured as a reverse recapitalization. As a result, the reports filed by the Company subsequent to the Transaction are prepared as if Rosehill Operating is the predecessor and legal successor to the Company. The historical operations of Rosehill Operating are deemed to be those of the Company. Thus, the financial statements included in this report reflect the historical operating results of Rosehill Operating prior to the Transaction; the combined results of the Company and Rosehill Operating following the Transaction; the assets and liabilities of Rosehill Operating at their historical cost; and the Company equity and earnings per share for all periods presented. 8 Organizational Structure The following diagram illustrates the ownership structure of the company as of December 31, 2018 (1) Series B Preferred Stock Purchasers refers to certain private funds and accounts managed by EIG Global Energy Partners, LLC. (2) Company Affiliates refers to KLR Energy Sponsor, LLC, certain of our current and former directors and officers, and certain of our shareholders who own greater than 10% of the Company common stock. (3) Includes Class B Common Stock, Series A Preferred Stock and warrants held by Tema. (4) The economic and voting interests set forth above do not take into account (i) the exercise of outstanding warrants for shares of Class A Common Stock, (ii) the future issuance of shares of Class A Common Stock under the Amended and Restated 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan (the Long Term Incentive Plan ) or (iii) the conversion of Series A Preferred Stock into shares of Class A Common Stock or the redemption of Rosehill Operating Common Units (and corresponding shares of Class B Common Stock) for shares of Class A Common Stock. (5) In connection with the conversion of our remaining Series A Preferred Stock into Class A Common Stock, the Rosehill Operating Series A Preferred Units owned by us will convert into Rosehill Operating Common Units and, on an as converted basis, we will own approximately 43% of the Rosehill Operating Common Units. Our Business We are an independent oil and natural gas company focused on the acquisition, exploration, development and production of unconventional oil and associated liquids rich natural gas reserves in the Permian Basin. The Permian Basin is located in West Texas and Southeastern New Mexico and is comprised of 3 primary sub basins; the Midland Basin, the Central Basin Platform and the Delaware Basin. Since the sale of our Barnett Shale assets during the fourth quarter of 2017, our assets are concentrated within the Delaware Basin, and we divide our operations into 2 core areas the Northern Delaware Basin and the Southern Delaware Basin. 9 Our sole material asset is our interest in Rosehill Operating. As the sole managing member of Rosehill Operating, we, through our officers and directors, are responsible for all operational, management and administrative decisions relating to Rosehill Operating business without the approval of any other member, unless otherwise specified in the Second Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Rosehill Operating (the Second Amended LLC Agreement ). Our management team has significant experience identifying, acquiring and developing unconventional oil and natural gas assets with the objective of being a returns oriented pure play Delaware Basin company focusing on (i) acreage with reduced development risk as a result of being in proven areas within the vicinity of other successful wells, (ii) stacked pay z1s, including Brushy Canyon, Avalon 1 st B1 Spring, 2 nd B1 Spring, 3 rd B1 Spring, Upper Wolfcamp A (X Y), Lower Wolfcamp A and Wolfcamp B and (iii) application of geology, optimizing well process improvements and well returns. We believe these characteristics enhance our horizontal production capabilities, recoveries and economic results. Recent Events Class A Common Stock Offering On September 27, 2018 , we entered into an underwriting agreement (the Underwriting Agreement ) with Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as representative of the several underwriters named therein (the Underwriters ), for a public offering of 6,150,000 shares of common stock (the Class A Common Stock Offering ) at a public offering price of $6.10 per share ( $5.795 per share net of underwriting discount and commissions). Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, we granted the Underwriters a 30 day option to purchase up to an additional 922,500 shares of Class A Common Stock. On October 2, 2018 , upon the closing of the Class A Common Stock Offering, we issued 6,150,000 shares of Class A Common Stock. Our net proceeds from the Class A Common Stock Offering, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and offering costs, was $34.5 million . On October 5, 2018 , the Underwriters exercised their option to purchase an additional 840,744 shares of Class A Common Stock at the Underwriters price of $5.795 per share. We received net proceeds of approximately $4.9 million for the shares of Class A Common Stock sold pursuant to the exercise of the Underwriters option. We contributed all of the net proceeds from the Class A Common Stock Offering and the exercise of the Underwriters option to Rosehill Operating in exchange for Rosehill Operating Common Units. Farm In Agreement In March 2019, we executed a farm in agreement with Jagged Peak Energy covering the right to earn an interest in a strategic block in the Southern Delaware Basin. The farm in agreement allows us to earn up to approximately 2,200 net acres upon drilling and completing up to seven wells through 2020. We will provide a 25% carry of drilling and completion costs for each of the seven wells, along with facilities equipment. Amended and Restated Credit Agreement On March 28, 2018, Rosehill Operating entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement ) by and among Rosehill Operating, as borrower, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and certain other financial institutions party thereto, as lenders. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the lenders agreed to provide Rosehill Operating with a $500 million secured reserve based revolving credit facility with an initial borrowing base of $150 million . The first redetermination date occurred on June 29, 2018, increasing the borrowing base from $150 million to $210 million and then it was increased to $220 million on December 5, 2018. On March 28, 2019, the borrowing base was increased to $300 million. Our Operations We operate in 1 industry segment, which is the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas, and all of our operations are conducted in the United States. Consequently, we currently report a single reportable segment. See the notes to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about this reportable segment. Our future development will be focused predominately on horizontal development drilling in both our core acreage areas in the Northern Delaware Basin and the Southern Delaware Basin. We currently have 2 horizontal rigs under contract of less than 1 year. Since 2012, we have drilled 71 gross horizontal wells in the Northern Delaware Basin and 8 gross horizontal wells in the Southern Delaware Basin with a continuing drop in drilling times and an increase in operational capabilities and efficiencies. In 2018, our production was approximately 18,337 net barrels of oil equivalent per day, an increase of over 214% as compared to 10 the daily average of 2017. As of December 31, 2018, our portfolio included 67 gross operated producing horizontal wells in the Northern Delaware Basin and 4 gross operated producing horizontal wells in the Southern Delaware Basin, as well as working interests in approximately 6,665 gross acres in the Northern Delaware Basin and 9,219 gross acres in the Southern Delaware Basin. As of December 31, 2018, we have identified 513 gross operated and 53 gross non operated potential horizontal drilling locations in the Northern and Southern Delaware Basin, including 44 locations associated with proved undeveloped reserves, in up to ten formations from Brushy Canyon down through the Wolfcamp B. We believe that development drilling of our identified gross operated potential horizontal drilling locations, together with an increased focus on maximizing the value of existing assets by optimizing completions, reducing horizontal drilling costs, efficiently building out facilities and reducing operating costs will allow us to grow our production and reserves. We also intend to grow our production and reserves through acquisitions that meet certain strategic and financial objectives. The table below sets forth our identified potential operated horizontal drilling locations for the Northern and Southern Delaware Basin by formation as of December 31, 2018. Operated Potential Horizontal Drilling Locations (1)(2)(3) Target Formation Gross Net Brushy Canyon 27 24 Upper Avalon 13 13 Lower Avalon 1 st B1 Spring 83 74 2 nd B1 Spring Shale 17 17 2 nd B1 Spring Sand 59 55 3 rd B1 Spring Shale 19 19 3 rd B1 Spring Sand 57 49 Wolfcamp A (X Y) 15 15 Lower Wolfcamp A 68 57 Wolfcamp B 155 137 Total Horizontal Locations (4) 513 460 (1) Our inventory of gross operated potential horizontal drilling locations assumes four to six wells per 640 acre section within each of the ten formations, with the number of prospective formations varying from tract to tract depending on the geology of the specific area. (2) Our estimated drilling locations are based on well spacing assumptions and the evaluation of our horizontal drilling results as well as results of other operators in the area, combined with our interpretation of available geologic and engineering data. In particular, we have analyzed and interpreted well results and other data acquired through our participation in the drilling of a vertical well that penetrated all of our targeted horizontal formations. In addition, to evaluate the prospects of our horizontal acreage, we have performed open hole and mud log evaluations, core analysis, and drill cuttings analysis and acquired and interpreted modern 3 D seismic data. (3) The drilling locations that we actually drill will depend on the availability of capital, regulatory approvals, seasonal restrictions, commodity prices, costs, actual drilling results and other factors. Any drilling activities we are able to conduct on these identified potential horizontal drilling locations may not be successful and may not result in our ability to add additional proved reserves to our existing proved reserves. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The identified potential horizontal drilling locations are scheduled out over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the capital that would be necessary to drill such locations. (4) Includes PUDs and unproved locations for our leasehold in the Northern and Southern Delaware Basins. We expect to drill between 25 and 29 wells in 2019, completing between 24 and 28 wells. As of December 31, 2018, we had 8 drilled uncompleted wells ( DUCs ) and expect to exit 2019 with 8 to 10 DUCs. 11 Our locations Advanced petrophysical logs from the vertical portions of our wells, sidewall cores and seismic data are being utilized to guide our horizontal development of both the Northern Delaware area and the Southern Delaware area. The use of seismic data has resulted in a better understanding of our leasehold geology relative to other parts of the basin. The depth to the top of the Wolfcamp from a representative well central to our Northern Delaware leasehold is approximately 11,500 feet true vertical depth and approximately 9,000 feet true vertical depth in the Southern Delaware. The gross thickness of the potential pay section from the top of the Brushy Canyon formation through the base of the Wolfcamp B is approximately 4,500 feet in the Northern Delaware, an attractive thickness for development with multiple horizontal landing formations. Similarly, the gross thickness of the potential pay thickness from the top of the B1 Spring Lime through the base of the Wolfcamp B in the Southern Delaware is approximately 2,500 feet. We believe that the combination of these conditions will allow us to achieve superior results during the development of our leasehold. Historically, our horizontal drilling has been widespread across the majority of our lease acreage. We have established commercial production in eight distinct formations in the Northern Delaware Basin in the Upper Avalon, Lower Avalon, 2 nd B1 Spring Shale, 2 nd B1 Spring Sand, 3 rd B1 Spring Sand, Upper Wolfcamp A (X Y), Lower Wolfcamp A and Wolfcamp B. In addition, offset operators have drilled and are producing in all ten formations, from Brushy Canyon down through the Wolfcamp B, enabling us to evaluate our acreage across various geographic areas and stratigraphic formations. As of December 31, 2018, approximately 64.9% of our total net operated acreage was either held by production or under continuous drilling provisions. Offset operator activity within the 3 rd B1 Spring Sand and the Wolfcamp formations as well as our recent successful Wolfcamp drilling program has been a catalyst for Rosehill Operating to generate a development program focused on the 3 rd B1 Spring Sand, Upper Wolfcamp A (X Y), Lower Wolfcamp A and Wolfcamp B formations in the Northern Delaware. Our development program in the Southern Delaware will focus largely on the Wolfcamp A and Wolfcamp B formations. We will closely monitor this offset activity and adjust our future development plans with information and best practices learned from other operators. Completion design and our effective execution are the predominant factors that dictate relative well performance in an area or z1 We have an evolving completion strategy that includes methodical adjustments of parameters, testing of different well designs on adjacent locations with similar rock characteristics, constant monitoring and re evaluation of results and ultimately tailoring completions to the conditions specific to an area or formation. Our current base completion design is a hybrid fracture stimulation a combination of slickwater and cross linked gel. The field level rate of return is most influenced by incremental improvements in well performance and cost savings; our philosophy is to focus on both parameters, with an emphasis on performance enhancement. We believe all ten formations represent opportunities across our core acreage in the Northern Delaware with opportunities in six different formations in the Southern Delaware. We plan to target those formations in our future drilling program. In this Annual Report on Form 10 K, identified gross potential drilling locations are defined as locations on operated and non operated leaseholds specifically identified by geologic, engineering and economic assessment. We have estimated our drilling locations based on well spacing assumptions and the evaluation of our operated horizontal drilling results as well as results of other operators in our area. Well performances are combined with interpretation of available geologic and engineering data to generate a development model for the assets. In addition, to evaluate the prospects of our horizontal acreage, we have performed open hole and mud log evaluations, core analysis and drill cuttings analysis. We have also acquired 48 square miles of 3 D seismic data in the Northern Delaware and 110 square miles in the Southern Delaware that has been used to aid in the interpretation of the prospective formations. The availability of local infrastructure, well performance results, subsurface data and other factors that management may deem relevant, such as easement restrictions and state and local regulations, are considered in determining such locations. The locations that we will actually drill will ultimately depend upon the availability of capital, regulatory approvals, seasonal restrictions, oil and natural gas prices, costs and actual drilling results, among other factors. Based on our evaluation of applicable geologic and engineering data, we currently have approximately 513 gross ( 460 net) identified potential operated horizontal drilling locations in multiple horizons on our acreage. We intend to continue to develop our reserves and increase production through development drilling and exploitation and exploration activities on this multi year project inventory of identified potential drilling locations and through additional acquisitions that meet our strategic and financial objectives, targeting oil weighted reserves. 12 Operational facilities Our development plan includes the development of necessary infrastructure to lower our costs and support our drilling schedule and production growth. We expect to accomplish this goal primarily through contractual arrangements with third party service providers. Our facilities are generally in close proximity to our well locations and include storage tank batteries, oil natural gas water separation equipment and artificial lift equipment. A crude oil gathering system and a natural gas gathering system are already in place and functioning. We have sufficient gathering systems and pipeline takeaway capacity to continue ongoing and planned operations into 2019. As we continue to drill and develop our Delaware Basin assets, we expect that additional tank battery, water disposal and intra field gathering lines will be required. We have agreements in place with third party natural gas and crude oil purchasers and processors to benefit from existing downstream infrastructure. We expect to continue to evaluate the marketplace to obtain additional transportation and gathering options and capacity in the form of new pipeline tie ins. Major customers With respect to the core properties we operate in the Delaware Basin, we maintain contracts with Gateway Gathering and Marketing Company ( Gateway ) (an affiliate of Tema), Targa Delaware, LLC and Targa Crude Pipeline, LLC (collectively, referred to as Targa ), Plains Pipeline, L.P. ( Plains ) and Brazos Midstream Operating, LLC ( Brazos ) to gather and transport the majority of our production. We deliver crude oil and natural gas to Gateway, Targa, Plains and Brazos and they gather, transport and redeliver the oil and natural gas to certain redelivery points for sale to our customers. Please read the section entitled Gathering and Transportation for more detail on our gathering and transportation contracts. We sell our production to a relatively small number of customers, as is customary in the industry. We sell all of our natural gas and NGLs under contracts with terms generally greater than twelve months and all of our oil under contracts with terms generally less than twelve months. The following table shows the percentage of sales to each of our major customers that accounted for 10% or more of our total oil, natural gas and NGL sales for each year presented. Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 Customer Gateway (1) 60 % 80 % 70 % Plains 17 Targa 13 ETC Field Services, LLC 10 17 Enlink Midstream Services, LLC 10 Other 10 10 3 Total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) For a further discussion see Note 15 Related Party Transactions The loss of any 1 or all of our significant customers as a purchaser could materially and adversely affect our revenues in the short term. However, based on the current demand for oil and natural gas and the availability of other purchasers, we believe that the loss of any of our significant customers as a purchaser would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because crude oil and natural gas are fungible products with well established markets and numerous purchasers. The typical oil and natural gas lease agreement covering our properties provides for the payment of royalties to the mineral owner for all oil, NGLs and natural gas produced from any wells drilled on the leased premises. The lessor royalties and other leasehold burdens on our properties generally range from 125% to 25%, resulting in a net revenue interest to us generally ranging from 75% to 87.5%. As of December 31, 2018, 64.9% of our net leasehold acreage was held by production. 13 Gathering and Transportation Our oil and natural gas production from our core properties in the Northern Delaware Basin, except the Weber 26 lease, is delivered to our production facilities and then our oil is transported through Gateway Raven Gathering System ( Raven ) pipeline to the interconnection between the Raven pipeline and Plains pipeline and our natural gas production is transported through Gateway Loving County Gas System ( LCGS ) to the interconnection between LCGS Pipeline and our purchasers. We have a Crude Oil Gathering Agreement and a Gas Gathering Agreement with Gateway that will each expire in April 2027. Upon expiration, each agreement will continue on a year to year basis until terminated by either party. We do not control Gateway gathering facilities. Our oil and natural gas production from our Weber 26 lease is delivered to our production facilities and then transported through Targa crude oil and natural gas pipeline and gathering systems to delivery points specified in the contracts for sale to our customers. We have a five year Crude Oil Gathering Agreement with Targa, which became effective May 1, 2018, that upon expiration, will continue on a year to year basis until terminated by either party. We have a five year Gas Gathering, Processing and Purchase Agreement with Targa, which became effective December 1, 2016, that upon expiration, will continue on a year to year basis until terminated by either party. Our natural gas production from our core properties in the Southern Delaware Basin is delivered to our production facilities and then transported through Brazos gas gathering system to delivery points specified in the contracts for sale to our customers. We have a fifteen year Gas Gathering Agreement with Brazos, which became effective October 28, 2015, that upon expiration, will continue on a year to year basis until terminated by either party. During the further development of our properties in the Northern and Southern Delaware Basins, we expect to consider all gathering and delivery infrastructure options in the areas of our production. Gateway has a right of first refusal to build gathering and delivery infrastructure for our properties in the Northern Delaware Basin. Competition The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive and we compete with other companies that have greater resources. Many of these companies not only explore for and produce oil and natural gas, but also carry on midstream and refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects or to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue exploration activities during periods of low oil and natural gas market prices. Our larger or more integrated competitors may be able to absorb the burden of existing, and any changes to, federal, state and local laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. In addition, because we have fewer financial and human resources than many companies in our industry, we may be at a disadvantage in bidding for exploratory prospects and producing oil and natural gas properties. There is also competition between oil and natural gas producers and other industries producing energy and fuel, primarily based on price. Changes in the availability or price of oil and natural gas or other forms of energy, as well as business conditions, conservation and the ability to convert to alternate fuels and other forms of energy may affect the demand for oil and natural gas. Furthermore, competitive conditions may be substantially affected by various forms of energy legislation and or regulation considered from time to time by the governments of the United States and the jurisdictions in which we operate. It is not possible to predict the nature of any such legislation or regulation that may ultimately be adopted or its effects upon our future operations. Such laws and regulations may substantially increase the costs of developing oil and natural gas and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuation of a given operation. Our larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of existing and future federal, state and local laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. Please see Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Operations Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil or natural gas and secure trained personnel. 14 Seasonality of business Demand for oil and natural gas generally decreases during the spring and fall months and increases during the summer and winter months. However, seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or mild summers sometimes lessen this fluctuation. Weather conditions affect the demand for and prices of, oil, natural gas and NGLs. Due to these and other seasonal fluctuations, results of operations for quarterly periods may not be indicative of the results that may be realized on an annual basis. Such seasonal anomalies can also pose challenges for meeting our well drilling objectives and may increase competition for equipment, supplies and personnel during the spring and summer months, which could lead to shortages and increase costs or delay or temporarily halt our operations. Operational hazards and insurance The oil and natural gas industry involves a variety of operating risks, including, but not limited to, the risk of fire, explosions, blow outs, pipe failures and, in some cases, abnormally high pressure formations which could lead to environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks and the discharge of toxic gases. If any of these should occur, we could incur legal defense costs and could be required to pay amounts due to injury, loss of life, damage or destruction to property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. In accordance with what we believe to be industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the operating risks to which our business is exposed. We currently have insurance policies for certain property damages, control of well protection, general liability, commercial automobile, workers compensation, pollution liability (claims made coverage with a policy retroactive date), excess umbrella liability and other coverages. Our insurance is subject to exclusion and limitations, and there is no assurance that such coverage will fully or adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences, damages and losses. Any of these operational hazards could cause a significant disruption to our business. A loss not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Operations We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or the insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks. We reevaluate the purchase of insurance, policy terms and limits annually. Future insurance coverage for our industry could increase in cost and may include higher deductibles or retentions. In addition, some forms of insurance may become unavailable in the future or unavailable on terms that we believe are economically acceptable. No assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable and we may elect to maintain minimal or no insurance coverage. We may not be able to secure additional insurance or bonding that might be required by new governmental regulations. This may cause us to restrict our operations, which might severely impact our financial position. The occurrence of a significant event, not fully insured against, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Generally, we also require our third party vendors to sign master service agreements in which they agree to indemnify us for injuries and deaths of the service provider employees as well as contractors and subcontractors hired by the service provider. Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry Our operations are substantially affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and affects profitability. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and that continued substantial compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations, such laws and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted. Therefore, we are unable to predict the future costs or impacts of compliance. Proposals and proceedings that could affect the oil and natural gas industry are regularly considered by the United States Congress ( Congress ), the states, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ( FERC ), the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ), other federal agencies and the courts. We cannot predict when or whether any such proposals may become effective. However, we do not believe that we would be affected by any such action materially differently than similarly situated competitors. 15 Regulation of oil and natural gas production The production of oil and natural gas is subject to regulation under a wide range of local, state and federal statutes, rules, orders and regulations. We own property interests in jurisdictions that regulate drilling and operating activities by requiring, among other things, permits for the drilling of wells, bonding requirements to drill or operate wells, reports concerning operations and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the source and disposal of water used in the drilling and completion process, and the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled and the plugging and abandonment of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations, including the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the number of wells which may be drilled in an area and the unitization or pooling of crude oil or natural gas wells, as well as regulations that limit or prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability or fair apportionment of production from fields and individual wells. These laws also govern various conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, the establishment of maximum allowable rates of production from oil and natural gas wells, the regulation of well spacing or density and plugging and abandonment of wells. The effect of these regulations may limit the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce from our wells and limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill, although we can apply for exceptions to such regulations or to have reductions in well spacing or density. Moreover, many jurisdictions impose a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, NGLs and natural gas within its jurisdiction. The failure to comply with these rules and regulations can result in substantial penalties. Our competitors in the oil and natural gas industry are subject to the same regulatory requirements and restrictions that affect our operations. Regulation of oil sales and transportation Sales of oil, condensate and NGLs are not currently regulated and are made at negotiated prices. Nevertheless, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. Our sales of oil are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The transportation of oil in common carrier pipelines is also subject to rate and access regulation. FERC regulates interstate oil pipeline transportation rates under the Interstate Commerce Act. In general, interstate oil pipeline rates must be cost based, although settlement rates agreed to by all shippers are permitted and market based rates may be permitted in certain circumstances. Intrastate oil pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. The basis for intrastate oil pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate oil pipeline rates, varies from state to state. Insofar as effective interstate and intrastate rates and regulations regarding access are equally applicable to all comparable shippers, we believe that the regulation of oil transportation will not affect our operations in any way that is of material difference from those of our competitors who are similarly situated. In December 2015, H.R. 2029 was signed into law which lifted a ban on the export of crude oil from the United States. This will enable U.S. oil producers the flexibility to seek new markets and export oil into the global marketplace. Regulation of natural gas sales and transportation In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which natural gas could be sold. While sales by producers of natural gas can currently be made at uncontrolled market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce is regulated by FERC primarily under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, as amended ( NGA ) and by regulations and orders promulgated under the NGA by FERC. In certain limited circumstances, intrastate transportation and wholesale sales of natural gas may also be affected directly or indirectly by laws enacted by Congress and by FERC regulations. The EP Act of 2005 amended the NGA to add an anti market manipulation provision that makes it unlawful for any entity to engage in prohibited behavior prescribed by FERC Pursuant to the EP Act of 2005, FERC promulgated regulations that make it unlawful to (i) in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, use, or employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud; (ii) make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or (iii) engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. The anti market manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate only to intrastate or other non jurisdictional sales or gathering, but does apply to activities of gas pipelines and storage companies that provide interstate services, as well as otherwise non jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted in connection with gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction, which now includes the Annual Reporting requirements described below. The EP Act of 2005 also provided FERC with the power to assess civil penalties of up to $1,000,000 per day for violations of the NGA and increased FERC civil penalty authority under the NGA from $5,000 per violation per day to $1,000,000 per violation per day. Effective January 2018, to account for inflation, FERC civil penalty authority was increased to $1,238,271 16 per violation per day. The civil penalty provisions are applicable to entities that engage in the sale of natural gas for resale in interstate commerce. Under FERC regulations, wholesale buyers and sellers of more than 22 million MMBtus of physical natural gas in the previous calendar year, including natural gas producers, gatherers and marketers, are now required to report, on May 1 of each year, aggregate volumes of natural gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to or may contribute to the formation of price indices, and whether they report prices to any index publishers, and if so, whether their reporting complies with FERC policy statement on price reporting. Gathering service, which occurs upstream of jurisdictional transmission services, is regulated by the states onshore and in state waters. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by FERC under the NGA. Although FERC has set forth a general test for determining whether facilities perform a non jurisdictional gathering function or a jurisdictional transmission function, FERC determinations as to the classification of facilities are d1 on a case by case basis. To the extent that FERC issues an order that reclassifies certain non jurisdictional gathering facilities as jurisdictional transmission facilities, our costs of transporting gas to point of sale locations could increase. We believe that the third party natural gas pipelines on which our gas is gathered meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline status as a gatherer not subject to regulation under the NGA. However, the distinction between FERC regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of ongoing litigation, so the classification and regulation of those gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by FERC, the courts or Congress. State regulation of natural gas gathering facilities generally includes various occupational safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements. Although such regulation has not generally been affirmatively applied by state agencies, natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny in the future. For physical sales of these energy commodities, we are required to observe anti market manipulation laws and related regulations enforced by FERC under the EP Act of 2005 and under the Commodity Exchange Act ( CEA ) and regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The CEA prohibits any person from manipulating or attempting to manipulate the price of any commodity in interstate commerce or futures or derivative contracts on such commodity. The CEA also prohibits knowingly delivering or causing to be delivered false or misleading or knowingly inaccurate reports concerning market information or conditions that affect or tend to affect the price of a commodity, as well as any manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance in connection with any contract of sale of any commodity in interstate commerce or futures or derivative contract on such commodity. Should we violate the anti market manipulation laws and regulations, they could also be subject to related third party damage claims by, among others, sellers, royalty owners and taxing authorities. Intrastate natural gas transportation is also subject to regulation by state regulatory agencies. The basis for intrastate regulation of natural gas transportation and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate natural gas pipeline rates and services varies from state to state. Insofar as such regulation within a particular state will generally affect all intrastate natural gas shippers within the state on a comparable basis, we believe that the regulation of similarly situated intrastate natural gas transportation in any states in which we operate and ship our natural gas on an intrastate basis will not affect our operations in any way that is of material difference from those of our competitors. Like the regulation of interstate transportation rates, the regulation of intrastate transportation rates affects the marketing of natural gas that we produce, as well as the revenue we receive for sales of our natural gas. Changes in law and to FERC or state policies and regulations may adversely affect the availability and reliability of firm and or interruptible transportation service on interstate and intrastate pipelines, and we cannot predict what future action FERC or state regulatory bodies will take. We do not believe, however, that any regulatory changes will affect our operations in a way that materially differs from the way they will affect other natural gas producers and marketers with which we compete. 17 Regulation of Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health Matters Our oil and natural gas exploration, development and production operations are subject to stringent federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to occupational health and safety, or the protection of the environment and natural resources. Numerous federal, state and local governmental agencies, such as the EPA, issue regulations that often require difficult and costly compliance measures that carry substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties and may result in injunctive obligations for non compliance. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit construction or drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, ecologically or seismically sensitive areas and other protected areas, require action to prevent or remediate pollution from current or former operations, such as plugging aband1d wells or closing pits, result in the suspension or revocation of necessary permits, licenses and authorizations, require that additional pollution controls be installed and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations or related to our owned or operated facilities. Liability under such laws and regulations is often strict (i.e., no showing of fault is required) and can be joint and several. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or other waste products into the environment. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly pollution control or waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could materially adversely affect our operations and financial position, as well as the oil and natural gas industry in general. Our management believes that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and we have not experienced any material adverse effect from compliance with these environmental requirements. This trend, however, may not continue in the future. Regulation of hazardous substances and waste handling The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 ( CERCLA ), also known as the Superfund law, and comparable state laws, impose liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons that are considered to have contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the current and past owner or operator of the disposal site or the site where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at the site where the release occurred. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several strict liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources. Although petroleum substances such as crude oil and natural gas are excluded from the definition of hazardous substances under CERCLA, various substances used in drilling and production operations are not covered by this exclusion and releases of these non excluded substances or petroleum substances could give rise to CERCLA liability. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances or petroleum released into the environment. We are only able to directly control the operation of those wells for which we act as operator. Notwithstanding our lack of direct control over wells operated by others, the liability of an operator other than us for releases may, in certain circumstances, be attributed to us. We generate materials in the course of our operations that may be regulated as hazardous substances, but we are unaware of any liabilities for which we may be held responsible that would materially and adversely affect us. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ) and analogous state laws impose detailed requirements for the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of nonhazardous and hazardous solid wastes. RCRA specifically excludes drilling fluids, produced waters and other wastes associated with the development or production of crude oil, natural gas or geothermal energy from regulation as hazardous wastes. However, in the course of our operations, we may generate some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, laboratory wastes and waste compressor oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes if such wastes have hazardous characteristics or are listed hazardous wastes. In addition, even wastes excluded from the definition of hazardous waste may be regulated by the EPA or state agencies under state laws or other federal laws. Moreover, it is possible that those particular oil and natural gas development and production wastes now excluded from the definition of hazardous wastes could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. For example, from time to time various environmental groups have challenged the EPA exclusion of certain oil and gas wastes from regulations RCRA. In 1 such challenge, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia entered a consent decree requiring EPA to evaluate the exclusion and, by March 2019, to either sign a notice of proposed rulemaking revising the regulations excluding oil and gas wastes or sign a determination that revision of the exclusion is not necessary. A loss of the RCRA exclusion for drilling fluids, produced waters and related wastes, if the EPA were to eliminate the exclusion, could result in an increase in our costs to manage and dispose of generated wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Although the costs of managing hazardous waste may be significant, we do not believe that our costs in this regard are materially more burdensome than those for similarly situated companies. 18 We currently own, lease, or operate numerous properties that have been used for oil and natural gas development and production activities for many years. Although we believe that we have utilized operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons may have been released on, under or from the properties owned or leased by us, or on, under or from other locations, including off site locations, where such substances have been taken for recycling or disposal. In addition, some of our properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or petroleum hydrocarbons was not under our control. These properties and the substances disposed or released on, under or from them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to undertake response or corrective measures, which could include removal of previously disposed substances and wastes, cleanup of contaminated property, or performance of remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. Regulation of water discharges The Clean Water Act and comparable state laws impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants, including produced waters and other oil and natural gas wastes, into or near navigable waters. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or the state. The discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, is also prohibited, unless authorized by a permit issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (the Corps ). In September 2015, the EPA and the Corps issued new rules defining the scope of the EPA and the Corps jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act with respect to certain types of waterbodies and classifying these waterbodies as regulated wetlands. The 2015 rule was previously stayed nationwide to determine whether federal district or appellate courts had jurisdiction to hear cases challenging the new rules. The EPA and the Corps issued a proposed rulemaking in June 2017 to repeal the June 2015 rule and announced their intent to issue a new rule defining the Clean Water Act jurisdiction. In January 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision finding that jurisdiction resides with the federal district courts; following which, the previously filed district court cases were allowed to proceed. Following the Supreme Court decision, the EPA and the Corps issued a final rule in January 2018 staying implementation of the 2015 rule for 2 years while the agencies reconsidered the rule. Multiple states and environmental groups challenged the stay and a federal judge barred the agencies suspension of the rule in August 2018. Separately, a federal court in Georgia enjoined implementation of the rule in eleven states. However, in December 2018, the EPA and the Corps released a proposed rule that would replace the 2015 rule and significantly reduce the waters subject to federal regulation under the Clean Water Act. Such proposal is currently subject to public review and comment, after which additional legal challenges are anticipated. As a result of these recent developments, future implementation of the 2015 rule is uncertain. To the extent any revised rule expands the scope of the Clean Water Act jurisdiction, we could face increased costs and delays with respect to obtaining permits for dredge and fill activities in wetland areas. Obtaining permits has the potential to delay the development of oil and natural gas projects. These laws and any implementing regulations provide for administrative, civil and criminal penalties for any unauthorized discharges of pollutants in reportable quantities and may impose substantial potential liability for the costs of removal, remediation and damages. In addition, pursuant to these laws and regulations, we may be required to obtain and maintain approvals or permits for the discharge of wastewater or storm water and are required to develop and implement spill prevention, control and countermeasure plans, also referred to as SPCC plans, for on site storage of significant quantities of oil. We believe that we maintain all required discharge permits necessary to conduct our operations and further believe we are in substantial compliance with the terms thereof. The primary federal law related specifically to oil spill liability is the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ( OPA ), which amends and augments the oil spill provisions of the Clean Water Act and imposes certain duties and liabilities on certain responsible parties related to the prevention of oil spills and damages resulting from such spills in or threatening waters of the United States or adjoining shorelines. For example, operators of certain oil and natural gas facilities must develop, implement and maintain facility response plans, conduct annual spill training for certain employees and provide varying degrees of financial assurance. Owners or operators of a facility, vessel or pipeline that is a source of an oil discharge or that poses the substantial threat of discharge is 1 type of responsible party who is liable. The OPA applies joint and several liability, without regard to fault, to each liable party for oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages. Although defenses exist, they are limited. As such, a violation of the OPA has the potential to adversely affect our operations. Regulation of air emissions The federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws restrict the emission of air pollutants from many sources, such as, for example, compressor stations, through air emissions standards, construction and operating permitting programs and the imposition of other compliance requirements. These laws and regulations may require us to obtain pre approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce or significantly increase air emissions, obtain and strictly comply with stringent air permit requirements or utilize specific equipment or technologies to control emissions of certain pollutants. Over the next several years, we may be required to incur certain capital expenditures for air pollution control equipment or other air 19 emissions related issues. For example, in October 2015, the EPA lowered the National Ambient Air Quality Standards ( NAAQS ) for oz1 from 75 to 70 parts per billion. In November 2017, the EPA published a list of areas that are in compliance with the new oz1 standard and, separately in December 2017, issued responses to state recommendations for designating non attainment areas. States had the opportunity to submit new air quality monitoring to the EPA prior to the EPA finalizing its non attainment designations. The EPA issued final attainment status designations in April 2018 and July 2018. State implementation of the revised NAAQS could result in stricter permitting requirements or could delay or limit our ability to obtain such permits and result in increased expenditures for pollution control equipment, the costs of which could be significant. In addition, the EPA has adopted new rules under the Clean Air Act that require the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from certain fractured and refractured natural gas wells for which well completion operations are conducted and further require that most wells use reduced emission completions, also known as green completions. These regulations also establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from production related wet seal and reciprocating compressors, and from pneumatic controllers and storage vessels. More recently, in June 2016, the EPA finalized rules regarding criteria for aggregating multiple small surface sites into a single source for air quality permitting purposes applicable to the oil and gas industry. This rule could cause small facilities, on an aggregate basis, to be deemed a major source, thereby triggering more stringent air permitting processes and requirements. Compliance with these and other air pollution control and permitting requirements has the potential to delay the development of oil and natural gas projects and increase our costs of development, which costs could be significant. However, we do not believe that compliance with such requirements will have a material adverse effect on our operations. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions ( GHG ) In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHG present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations pursuant to the federal Clean Air Act that, among other things, require preconstruction and operating permits for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that otherwise require such permits for non GHG emissions. Facilities required to obtain preconstruction permits for their GHG emissions are also required to meet best available control technology standards that are being established by the states or, in some cases, by the EPA on a case by case basis. These regulatory requirements could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production sources in the United States on an annual basis, which include certain of our operations. Furthermore, in June 2016, the EPA finalized rules that establish new controls for emissions of methane from new, modified or reconstructed sources in the oil and natural gas source category, including production, processing, transmission and storage activities. The rule includes first time standards to address emissions of methane from equipment and processes across the source category, including hydraulically fractured oil and natural gas well completions. However, the agency proposed a rulemaking in June 2017 to stay the requirements for a period of 2 years and revisit implementation of these methane standards in their entirety. In September 2018, the EPA proposed amendments to the 2016 rules that would reduce the 2016 rules fugitive emissions monitoring requirements and expand exceptions to controlling methane emissions from pneumatic pumps, among other changes. Various industry and environmental groups have separately challenged both the 2016 rules and the EPA attempts to delay the implementation of such rules. As a result of these developments, future implementation of the standards is uncertain at this time. To the extent implemented, compliance with these rules would require enhanced record keeping practices, the purchase of new equipment such as optical gas imaging instruments to detect leaks and increased frequency of maintenance and repair activities to address emissions leakage. The rules would also likely require hiring additional personnel to support these activities or the engagement of third party contractors to assist with and verify compliance. New rules related to the reduction of methane and other GHG emissions could result in increased compliance costs on our operations. There have not been significant legislative proposals to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional programs and initiatives have been enacted or are being considered that are aimed at tracking and or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs, direct taxation of carbon emissions, or that promote the use of less carbon intensive fuels. These programs typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. At the international level, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France that requires member countries to review and represent a progression in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016. Although this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions, it does include pledges from participating nations to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. In June 2017, President Trump stated that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement, but may enter into a future international agreement related to GHGs. The Paris Agreement provides for a four year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States adherence to the exit process is uncertain and or the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time. 20 Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. Substantial limitations on GHG emissions could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce and lower the value of our reserves. Recently, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for exploration and production activities. Notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and that oil and gas will continue to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts and other climatic events. Our operations are onshore and not located in coastal or flood pr1 regions of the United States, but if any such effects were to occur at our locations, these effects have the potential to cause physical damage to our assets or affect the availability of water for our operations and thus could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Regulation of hydraulic fracturing Hydraulic fracturing is an important common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations, including shales. The process, which involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production, is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. However, legislation has been proposed in recent sessions of Congress to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act ( SDWA ) to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the definition of underground injection, to require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, and to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process. Furthermore, several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, the EPA has recently taken the position that hydraulic fracturing with fluids containing diesel fuel is subject to regulation under the Underground Injection Control program, specifically as Class II Underground Injection Control wells under the Safe Drinking Water Act. Also, in June 2016, the EPA published a final rule prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants. The EPA has issued final regulations under the federal Clean Air Act that establish air emission controls for oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations. Specifically, the EPA rule package includes New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with oil and natural gas production and processing activities. These rules require a 95% reduction in volatile organic compounds emitted from these activities by requiring the use of reduced emission completions or green completions on new hydraulically fractured wells. The rules also establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from compressors, controllers, dehydrators, storage tanks and other production equipment. These standards, as well as any future laws and their implementing regulations, may require us to obtain pre approval for the expansion or modification of existing facilities or the construction of new facilities expected to produce air emissions, impose stringent air permit requirements, or mandate the use of specific equipment or technologies to control emissions. The EPA has also released a study examining the potential for hydraulic fracturing activities to impact drinking water resources, finding that, under some circumstances, the use of water in hydraulic fracturing activities can impact drinking water resources. Also, on February 6, 2015, the EPA released a report with findings and recommendations related to public concern about induced seismic activity from disposal wells. The report recommends strategies for managing and minimizing the potential for significant injection induced seismic events. Several states, including Texas, and local jurisdictions, have adopted, or are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, impose more stringent operating standards and or require the disclosure of the composition of hydraulic fracturing fluids. For example, the Texas Railroad Commission has adopted rules governing well casing, cementing and other standards for ensuring that hydraulic fracturing operations do not contaminate nearby water resources. The Texas Railroad Commission has also adopted disposal well rule amendments designed, among other things, to require applicants for new disposal wells that will receive non hazardous produced water and hydraulic fracturing flowback fluid to conduct seismic activity searches utilizing the U.S. Geological Survey. The searches are intended to determine the potential for earthquakes within a circular area of 100 square miles around a proposed new disposal well. The disposal well rule amendments also clarify the Texas Railroad Commission authority to modify, suspend or terminate a disposal well permit if scientific data indicates a disposal well is likely to contribute to seismic activity. The Texas Railroad Commission has used this authority to deny permits for waste disposal wells. 21 There has been increasing public controversy regarding hydraulic fracturing with regard to the use of fracturing fluids, induced seismic activity, impacts on drinking water supplies, use of water and the potential for impacts to surface water, groundwater and the environment generally. A number of lawsuits and enforcement actions have been initiated across the country implicating hydraulic fracturing practices. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations as well as make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing is further regulated at the federal, state or local level, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting and financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping obligations, plugging and abandonment requirements and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Such legislative changes could cause us to incur substantial compliance costs, and compliance or the consequences of any failure to comply by us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At this time, it is not possible to estimate the impact on our business of newly enacted or potential federal, state or local laws governing hydraulic fracturing. ESA and migratory birds The Endangered Species Act ( ESA ) and (in some cases) comparable state laws were established to protect endangered and threatened species. Pursuant to the ESA, if a species is listed as threatened or endangered, restrictions may be imposed on activities adversely affecting that species habitat. Similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. We may conduct operations on oil and natural gas leases in areas where certain species that are listed as threatened or endangered or proposed for listing are known to exist. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of a threatened or endangered species. A critical habitat or suitable habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and may materially delay or prohibit land access for oil and natural gas development. Moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2011, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service was required to make a determination on listing of more than 250 species as endangered or threatened under the ESA by no later than completion of the Agency 2017 fiscal year. The agency missed this deadline and continues to review species for listing under the ESA. Also, in the past, the federal government has issued indictments under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act to several oil and natural gas companies after dead migratory birds were found near reserve pits associated with drilling activities. However, in December 2017, the Department of Interior issued a new opinion revoking its prior enforcement policy and concluded that an incidental take is not a violation of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. The identification or designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where underlying property operations are conducted could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on our development activities that could have an adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce reserves. If we were to have a portion of our leases designated as a critical or suitable habitat, it could adversely impact the value of our leases. OSHA We are subject to the requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Act OSHA and comparable state statutes whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard, the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act and comparable state statutes and any implementing regulations require that we organize and or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local governmental authorities and citizens. Related Permits and Authorizations Many environmental laws require us to obtain permits or other authorizations from state and or federal agencies before initiating certain drilling, construction, production, operation, or other oil and natural gas activities and to maintain these permits and compliance with their requirements for ongoing operations. These permits are generally subject to protest, appeal, or litigation, which, in certain cases, can delay or halt projects and cease production or operation of wells, pipelines and other operations. Employees As of December 31, 2018, we had 79 full time employees. N1 of our employees are represented by labor unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages. Our future success will depend partially on our ability to identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory. 22 Offices Our principal executive offices are located at 16200 Park Row, Suite 300, Houston, Texas 77084, and our teleph1 number at that address is (281) 675 3400. We also have office space in Midland, Texas. Available information We are required to file quarterly and annual reports, current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any documents filed by us with the SEC at the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Our filings with the SEC are also available to the public at the SEC website at http www.sec.gov . Our Class A Common Stock is listed and traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol ROSE. We also make available on our website (http www.rosehillresources.com) all documents that we file with the SEC, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with the SEC. Our Code of Ethics and Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of our audit committee, compensation committee and nominating and governance committee are also available on our website and in print free of charge to any stockholder who requests them. Requests should be sent by mail to our corporate secretary at our corporate offices at 16200 Park Row, Suite 300, Houston, Texas 77084. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We intend to disclose on our website any amendments or waivers to our Code of Ethics that are required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 5.05 of Form 8 K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The nature of our business activities subjects us to certain hazards and risks. The following risks and uncertainties, together with other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, should be carefully considered by current and future investors in our securities. These risks and uncertainties are not the only 1s we face. Additional risks and uncertainties presently unknown to us or currently deemed immaterial also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of 1 or more of these risks or uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition, our cash flows and the results of our operations, which in turn could negatively impact the value of our securities. Risks Related to Our Operations Oil, natural gas and NGL prices are volatile. A reduction or sustained decline in oil, natural gas and NGL prices could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. Our revenues, profitability, cash flows and future growth, as well as liquidity and ability to access additional sources of capital, depends substantially on prevailing prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs. A reduction in or sustained lower prices will reduce the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that we can economically produce and may result in impairments of our proved reserves or reduction of our proved undeveloped reserves. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and ability to borrow and raise additional capital. The markets for oil, natural gas and NGLs have historically been volatile. For example, since 2014, the WTI spot price for oil declined from a high of $107.95 per barrel in June 2014 to a low of $26.19 per barrel in February 2016 and ended at $45.15 per barrel on December 31, 2018. The NYMEX Henry Hub spot price for natural gas declined from a high of $8.15 per MMBtu in February 2014 to a low of $149 per MMBtu in March 2016 and ended at $325 per MMBtu on December 31, 2018. Likewise, NGLs, which are made up of ethane, propane, isobutane, normal butane and natural gasoline, each of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics, have been volatile. The price of propane (Mont Belvieu) ranged from a high of $170 per gallon in January 2014 to a low of $0.30 per gallon in January 2016 and ended at $0.64 per gallon on December 31, 2018, and the price of ethane (Mont Belvieu) ranged from a high of $0.45 per gallon in January 2014 to a low of $0.14 per gallon in December 2016 and ended the year at $0.29 per gallon on December 31, 2018. The market prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs depend on factors beyond our control. Some, but not all, of the factors that can cause fluctuation include worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs; the price and quantity of foreign imports of oil, natural gas, and NGLs; 23 political and economic conditions in, or affecting, other producing regions or countries, including the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia; actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ), its members and other state controlled oil companies, including the ability of members of OPEC to agree to and maintain price and production controls; the level of global exploration, development and production; the level of global inventories; the extent to which U.S. shale producers become swing producers adding or subtracting to the world supply; prevailing prices on local price indexes in the area in which we operate; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of gathering and transportation facilities; localized and global supply and demand fundamentals and transportation availability; the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and transporting reserves; weather conditions, other natural disasters and climate change; technological advances affecting energy consumption; the price and availability of alternative fuels; worldwide conservation measures; domestic and foreign governmental relations, regulation and taxes; worldwide governmental regulation and taxes; U.S. and foreign trade restrictions, regulations, tariffs, agreements and treaties; the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including commodity price speculators and others; political conditions or hostilities and unrest in oil producing regions; and market perceptions of future prices, whether due to the foregoing factors or others. Lower commodity prices will reduce our cash flows and borrowing ability. We may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in the present value of our reserves and our ability to develop future reserves. Lower commodity prices may also reduce the amount of oil, natural gas and NGLs that we can produce economically and may impact our ability to satisfy our obligations under firm commitment transportation agreements. Using lower prices in estimating proved reserves would likely result in a reduction in proved reserve volumes due to economic limits. While it is difficult to project future economic conditions and whether such conditions will result in impairment of proved property costs, we consider several variables including specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors. In addition, sustained periods with oil and natural gas prices at levels lower than current strip prices and the resultant effect such prices may have on our drilling economics and our ability to raise capital may require us to re evaluate and postp1 or eliminate our development drilling, which could result in the reduction of some of our proved undeveloped reserves. If we are required to curtail our drilling program, we may be unable to continue to hold leases that are scheduled to expire, which may further reduce our reserves. As a result, a substantial or extended decline in commodity prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. 24 Our development and acquisition projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our ability to access or grow production and reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make substantial capital expenditures related to development and acquisition projects. We expect to fund our capital expenditures with cash generated by operations and borrowings under the Company Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of March 28, 2018, by and among Rosehill Operating, Rosehill and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and issuing bank, and each of the lenders from time to time party thereto (the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement ); however, financing needs may require an alteration or increase in our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity or the sale of assets. The issuance of additional debt securities would require that a portion of the cash flow from our operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. The issuance of additional equity securities would be dilutive to stockholders. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things oil, natural gas and NGL prices; actual drilling results; the availability and cost of drilling rigs and other services and equipment; and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. A reduction in commodity prices from current levels may result in a decrease in our actual capital expenditures, which would negatively impact our ability to grow production. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including the prices at which our production is sold; our proved reserves; the volume of hydrocarbons we are able to produce from existing wells; our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; the levels of our operating expenses; our ability to borrow under our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (or any replacement credit facility); and our ability to access the capital markets. If cash flow from operations or available borrowings under our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement decrease as a result of lower oil, natural gas and NGL prices, operational difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain operations at current levels. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, if at all. If cash flow from operations or available under existing or anticipated credit facilities are insufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of the development of our properties, which in turn could lead to a decline in our reserves and production and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Drilling for oil and natural gas involves numerous and significant risks and uncertainties. Risks that we face while drilling wells include effects of weather, floods, snowstorms, ice storms and similar natural conditions, on the drilling location and delivery of materials to the wellsite; unforeseen water flows; lost circulation of drilling fluids; unexpected oil and gas flows into the wellbore; drill pipe, casing and equipment failure, or loss of equipment in the well; failure or inaccuracies of directional drilling measurement devices; excessive hole washouts in the salt anhydrite z1s resulting in poor surface cement jobs; inability to reach the desired drilling z1 with conventional bits and drilling techniques; failure to land a wellbore in the desired drilling z1; inability to stay in the desired drilling z1 or being able to run tools and other equipment consistently while drilling horizontally through the formation; and difficulties in running casing the entire length of the wellbore. Risks that we face while completing wells include the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages; the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. In addition, certain of the new techniques we are adopting may cause irregularities or interruptions in production due to offset wells being shut in and the time required to drill and complete multiple wells before any such wells begin producing. Furthermore, the results of our drilling in new or emerging formations are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Newer or emerging formations and areas have limited or no production history and, consequently, we are more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. If our drilling results are less than anticipated, the return on our investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as anticipated, and we could incur material write downs of unevaluated properties and a decline in the value of our undeveloped acreage. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future financial condition and results of operations will depend on the success of our development, acquisition and production activities, which are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil and natural gas production. Our decisions to develop or purchase prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. For a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes, see Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. In addition, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. 26 Many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements, including limitations resulting from wastewater disposal, emissions of GHGs and limitations on hydraulic fracturing; pressure or irregularities in geological formations; shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel or in obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing activities; equipment failures, accidents or other unexpected operational events; lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities; lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines; adverse weather conditions, including such conditions which are possibly connected to climate change; drought conditions limiting the availability of water for hydraulic fracturing, including such conditions as possibly connected to climate change; issues related to compliance with environmental regulations, including protections for threatened or endangered species; environmental hazards, such as oil and natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment; declines in oil and natural gas prices; limited availability of financing at acceptable terms; title problems; and limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our earnings. A portion of our oil and natural gas production has historically been hedged in order to protect cash flow from falling prices. The use of these arrangements limits our ability to benefit from increases in the prices of natural gas and oil. As of December 31, 2018, we had open commodity derivative contracts for the months of January 2019 through December 2022 covering a total of 133 million barrels of oil, 6.1 million MMBtus of natural gas, 28 million gallons of NGLs (natural gas), 124 million gallons of NGLs (ethane) and 8.3 million gallons of NGLs (propane). Additionally, we had crude oil basis swaps covering a total of 8.3 million barrels of oil and natural gas basis swaps covering a total of 39 million MMBtus of natural gas. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of our commodity derivative. Commodity derivatives may also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production and sales are insufficient to offset losses under the commodity derivatives; the counterparty to the commodity derivatives defaults on its contractual obligations; there is an increase in the differential between the underlying price in the commodity derivatives and actual prices received; issues arise with regard to legal enforceability of such instruments; or applicable laws or regulations regarding such instruments are changed. The use of commodity derivatives may, in some cases, require the posting of cash collateral with counterparties. If we enter into commodity derivatives that require cash collateral, particularly if commodity prices or interest rates change in a manner averse to us, our cash otherwise available for use in our operations would be reduced, which could limit our ability to make future capital 27 expenditures and make payments on our indebtedness, and which could also limit the size of our borrowing base. Future collateral requirements will depend on arrangements with counterparties, highly volatile oil and natural gas prices and interest rates. In addition, commodity derivatives could limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our commodity derivative contracts expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden decreases in a counterparty liquidity, which could make the counterparty unable to perform under the terms of the contract, and we may not be able to realize the benefit of the contract. We are unable to predict sudden changes in a counterparty credi2rthiness or ability to perform. Even if we accurately predict sudden changes, our ability to negate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions. During periods of declining commodity prices, our commodity derivative contract receivable positions have generally increased, which has increased our counterparty credit exposure. If the credi2rthiness of our counterparties deteriorates and results in their nonperformance, we could incur a significant loss with respect to our commodity derivative contracts. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. In order to prepare reserve estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary from our estimates. For instance, initial production rates reported by us or other operators may not be indicative of future or long term production rates, our recovery efficiencies may be worse than expected, and production declines may be greater than our estimates and may be more rapid and irregular when compared to initial production rates. In addition, we may adjust reserve estimates to reflect additional production history, results of development activities, current commodity prices and other existing factors. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our estimated reserves is the current market value of such reserves. We generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. For example, our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2018 were, and related standardized measure was, calculated under SEC rules using twelve month unweighted average first day of the month prices of $65.56 per barrel of oil (WTI), $2302 per barrel of NGL (35% of WTI) and $310 per MMBtu of natural gas (Henry Hub) which, for certain periods in 2018, were substantially higher than the available spot prices. If spot prices are below such calculated amounts, using more recent prices in estimating proved reserves may result in a reduction in proved reserve volumes due to economic limits. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of our drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill such locations. We have specifically identified and scheduled certain drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the potential drilling locations our management has identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas in commercial qualities from these or any other drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the drilling locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified. 28 As of December 31, 2018, 513 gross operated potential horizontal drilling locations have been identified on our acreage based on four to six wells per 640 acre section within each of ten formations from the Brushy Canyon through Wolfcamp B formations, of which 44 were PUDs. Horizontal lateral effective lengths across our acreage range from 4,000 feet up to 10,000 feet. As a result of the limitations described above, we may be unable to drill many of the identified locations. Further, in connection with the White Wolf Acquisition, we acquired approximately 6,505 net acres in northwestern Pecos County, Texas, which is largely unproven and relatively undrilled compared to other areas in the Delaware Basin. We have no experience drilling in Pecos County. Based on future operations or regulatory changes, we may determine that certain formations cannot be physically or economically exploited or that spacing of wells may have to be changed. In addition, we will require significant additional capital over a prolonged period in order to pursue the development of these locations, and we may not be able to raise or generate the capital required to do so. See Our development and acquisition projects require substantial capital expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a decline in our ability to access or grow production and reserves. Any drilling activities we are able to conduct on these locations may not be successful or result in our ability to add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves or may result in a downward revision of our estimated proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business and results of operations. Additionally, if we curtail our drilling program, we may lose a portion of our acreage through lease expirations. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage, the primary term is extended through continuous drilling provisions or the leases are renewed. As of December 31, 2018, approximately 64.9% of our total net acreage was either held by production or under continuous drilling provisions. The leases for our net acreage not held by production will expire at the end of their primary term unless production is established in paying quantities under the units containing these leases, the leases are held beyond their primary terms under continuous drilling provisions or the leases are renewed. If our leases expire and we are unable to renew the leases, we will lose the right to develop the related properties. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, regulatory approvals and other factors. Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Water is an essential comp1nt of deep shale oil and natural gas drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Drought conditions have persisted in Texas in past years. These drought conditions have led governmental authorities to restrict the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to protect local water supplies. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations, we may be unable to economically produce oil and natural gas, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. All of our producing properties are located in the Delaware Basin, a sub basin of the Permian Basin, in West Texas and New Mexico, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a single geographic area. All of our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Delaware Basin, a sub basin of the Permian Basin, in West Texas. At December 31, 2018, 100% of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in this area. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, availability of equipment and personnel, water shortages or other drought related conditions or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil, natural gas or NGLs. In addition to the geographic concentration of our producing properties in the Delaware Basin described above, at December 31, 2018, approximately 68% percent of our proved reserves were attributable to the 3 rd B1 Spring, Wolfcamp A (X Y) and Lower Wolfcamp A formations. This concentration of assets within a small number of producing horizons exposes us to additional risks, such as changes in field wide rules and regulations that could cause us to permanently or temporarily shut in all of our wells within a field. 29 Unless we replace our reserves with new reserves and develop those reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our future cash flows and results of operations. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Unless we conduct successful ongoing exploration and development activities or continually acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Our future reserves and production, and therefore our future cash flow and results of operations, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire sufficient additional reserves to replace the current and future production. If we are unable to replace our current and future production, the value of our reserves will decrease, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We will not be the operator on all of our acreage or drilling locations, and, therefore, we will not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non operated assets. As of December 31, 2018, we have leased or acquired approximately 11,583 net acres in the Delaware Basin, approximately 931% of which we operate. As of December 31, 2018, we were the operator on 513 of our 566 identified gross horizontal drilling locations. We expect to operate approximately 915% of, and have an approximate 910% working interest in, the acreage we own in the Southern Delaware Basin and believe that the acreage may be prospective for six different shale formations. We will have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of the drilling locations we do not operate, and the operators of those locations may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with us. Furthermore, the success and timing of development activities by such operators will depend on a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including the timing and amount of capital expenditures; the operator expertise and financial resources; the approval of other participants in drilling wells; the selection of technology; and the rate of production of reserves, if any. This limited ability to exercise control over the operations and associated costs of some of our non operated drilling locations could prevent the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. We participate in oil and gas leases with third parties who may not be able to fulfill their commitments to our projects. We own less than 100% of the working interest on a minority of the oil and gas leases on which we conduct operations, and other unrelated parties own the remaining portion of the working interest. Financial risks are inherent in any operation where the cost of drilling, equipping, completing and operating wells is shared by more than 1 person. We could potentially be held liable for joint activity obligations of other working interest owners, such as nonpayment of costs and liabilities arising from the actions of other working interest owners. In addition, declines in oil, natural gas and NGL prices may increase the likelihood that some of these working interest owners, particularly those that are smaller and less established, are not able to fulfill their joint activity obligations. Other working interest owners may be unable or unwilling to pay their share of project costs, and, in some cases, may declare bankruptcy. In the event any other working interest owners do not pay their share of such costs, we would likely have to pay those costs, and may be unsuccessful in any efforts to recover these costs from other working interest owners, which could materially adversely affect our financial position. The marketability of our production will be dependent upon transportation and other facilities, certain of which we will not control. If these facilities are unavailable, our operations could be interrupted and our revenues reduced. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities owned by third parties. Our oil production from our Loving County wells is transported through Gateway Raven pipeline from the wellhead to the interconnection between Raven pipeline and Plains Marketing, LP ( Plains Marketing ) pipeline, where Plains Marketing purchases the oil. The oil is then transported on a third party pipeline to a location where it is 30 resold. Our oil production from our Weber 26 lease wells is purchased at the wellhead by Targa Delaware, LLC and oil production from our Tatanka lease well is purchased at the wellhead by Plains Marketing and subsequently transported on a third party pipeline to a location where it is resold. Our natural gas production from our Loving county wells is transported by Gateway on Gateway LCGS pipeline from the wellhead to the interconnection between LCGS pipeline and Delaware G&P LLC pipeline and ETC Field Services pipeline. The gas is sold by us to Delaware G&P LLC ( Delaware G&P )and ETC Field Services at the interconnection between LCGS and Delaware G&P and ETC Field Services. Delaware G&P and ETC Field Services transport the gas to their processing facilities. Our natural gas production from our Weber 26 lease wells is purchased at the wellhead by Targa Delaware, LLC and natural gas production from our Tatanka lease well is purchased at the wellhead by ETC Field Services and subsequently transported on a third party pipeline to their gas processing facilities. We entered into crude oil gathering and natural gas gathering agreements with Gateway, for production from our Loving County wells, that will expire in April 2027. We do not control Gateway or the third party transportation and processing facilities and our access to the facilities may be limited or denied. Insufficient production from our wells to support the construction of pipeline facilities by our purchasers or a significant disruption in the availability of third party transportation facilities or other production facilities could adversely impact our ability to deliver to market or produce our oil and natural gas and thereby cause a significant interruption in our operations. If, in the future, we are unable, for any sustained period, to implement acceptable delivery or transportation arrangements or encounter production related difficulties, we may be required to shut in or curtail production or flare natural gas. Any such shut in, curtailment, or flaring or an inability to obtain favorable terms for delivery of the oil and natural gas produced from our fields, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Multi well pad drilling may result in volatility in our operating results. We utilize multi well pad drilling where practical. Because wells drilled on a pad are not brought into production until all wells on the pad are drilled and completed and the drilling rig is moved from the location, multi well pad drilling delays the commencement of production, which may cause volatility in our quarterly operating results. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we have historically obtained title opinions prior to commencing drilling operations on a lease or in a unit, the failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property and may be required to pay damages to the actual owner of the lease. Concerns over economic, business or industry conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Concerns over global economic conditions, energy costs, geopolitical issues, inflation, the availability and cost of credit, the European, Asian and the United States financial markets have contributed to increased economic uncertainty and diminished expectations for the global economy. In addition, continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the United States or other countries could adversely affect the global economy. Concerns about global economic growth have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad deteriorates, worldwide demand for petroleum products could diminish further, which could impact the price at which we can sell our production, affect the ability of our vendors, suppliers and customers to continue operations and ultimately adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The development of our estimated PUDs may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than currently anticipated. Therefore, our estimated PUDs may not be ultimately developed or produced. As of December 31, 2018, 435% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as PUDs. Development of these PUDS may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than currently anticipated. For example, primarily as a result of factors outside our control, including a downturn in commodity prices during 2014, we adjusted our development plan to temporarily defer the drilling of certain PUD locations. As a result, no PUDs were converted from undeveloped to developed during 2015 and 2016. As a result of our failure to convert any PUDs during 2015 and 2016, we will have a shorter period of time available to convert such PUDs (due to the requirement to convert PUDs from undeveloped to developed within five years of initial booking). Further delays in the development of our PUDs, increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves or decreases in commodity prices will reduce the value of our estimated PUDs and future revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects 31 becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our PUDs as unproved reserves if we no longer believe with reasonable certainty that we will develop the PUDs within five years after their initial booking. If we do not drill our PUD wells within five years after their respective dates of booking, we may be required to write down our PUDs. If commodity prices decrease to a level such that our future undiscounted cash flows from our properties are less than their carrying value, we may be required to take impairments or write downs of the carrying values of our properties. Accounting rules require periodic review of the carrying value of our properties for possible impairment. Based on prevailing commodity prices and specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our properties. A write down constitutes a non cash charge to earnings. Commodity prices have declined significantly in recent years. For example, the WTI spot price for oil declined from a high of $107.95 per barrel in June 2014 to a low of $26.19 per barrel in February 2016, and the NYMEX Henry Hub spot price for natural gas declined from a high of $8.15 per MMBtu in February 2014 to a low of $149 per MMBtu in March 2016. Likewise, NGLs have suffered significant recent declines in realized prices. The price of propane (Mont Belvieu) ranged from a high of $173 per gallon in February 2014 to a low of $0.30 per gallon in January 2016 and the price of ethane (Mont Belvieu) ranged from a high of $0.45 per gallon in January 2014 to a low of $0.13 per gallon in December 2015. Impairment expense for the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 was zero , $11 million and zero , respectively. Lower commodity prices in the future could result in impairments of our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the periods in which such charges are taken. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend upon significant purchasers for the sale of most of our oil, natural gas and NGL production. We have historically sold our production to a relatively small number of customers, as is customary in our business. For the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, 3 and 2 customers accounted for approximately 90% and 90% , respectively, of our total revenue. During such periods, no other purchaser accounted for 10% or more of our revenue. The loss of any 1 or all of our significant customers as a purchaser could materially and adversely affect our revenues in the short term. Our operations may be exposed to significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and occupational health and safety requirements applicable to our business activities. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, occupational health and safety aspects of our operations, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment and natural resources. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations applicable to our operations, including the acquisition of a permit or other approval before conducting regulated activities; the restriction of the types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection; or the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them. Such enforcement actions may require us to perform difficult and costly compliance measures or corrective actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil or criminal penalties, natural resource damages, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations and the issuance of orders limiting or prohibiting some or all of our operations; and plugging and abandonment responsibilities for wells which have ceased producing. In addition, we may experience delays in obtaining, or be unable to obtain, required permits, which may delay or interrupt our operations and limit our growth and revenue. Certain environmental laws impose strict as well as joint and several liabilities for costs required to remediate and restore sites where hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or solid wastes have been released into the environment. We may be required to remediate contaminated properties currently or formerly operated by us or our predecessors in interest or facilities of third parties that received waste generated by our operations regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In connection with certain acquisitions, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities 32 that could expose us to material losses. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental, health and safety impacts of our operations. Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage if an environmental claim is made against us. The trend has been for more expansive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations applied to the crude oil and natural gas industry, resulting in increased costs of doing business and consequently affecting profitability. For example, in June 2016, the EPA finalized a rule regarding criteria for aggregating multiple small surface sites into a single source for air quality permitting purposes applicable to the oil and gas industry. This rule could cause small facilities, on an aggregate basis, to be deemed a major source, thereby triggering more stringent air permitting requirements. In addition, in October 2015, the EPA lowered the NAAQS for oz1 from 75 to 70 parts per billion. In November 2017, the EPA published a list of areas that are in compliance with the new oz1 standards and separately in December 2017 issued responses to state recommendations for designating non attainment areas. The EPA issued final non attainment area designations in April 2018 and July 2018. State implementation of the revised NAAQS could result in stricter permitting requirements, delay or prohibit our ability to obtain such permits and result in increased expenditures for pollution control equipment, the costs of which could be significant. To the extent laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restricts drilling or imposes more stringent and costly operating, waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements, our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our operations. Additionally, we may not be insured for, or the insurance may be inadequate to protect us against, these risks. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our exploration and development activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable releases of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and air contamination; abnormally pressured formations; mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oilfield drilling and service tools and drill pipe or casing failures or collapse; fire, explosions and ruptures of pipelines; personal injuries and death; natural disasters, which may include severe weather as possibly connected to climate change and seismic events as possibly connected to injection of produced water and flowback into disposal wells; and terrorist attacks targeting oil and natural gas related facilities and infrastructure. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for injury or loss of life; damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; pollution and other environmental damage; statutory or regulatory investigations and penalties; and repair and remediation costs. We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, statutory and regulatory penalties, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 33 Properties that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. Properties that we decide to drill that do not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of micro seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields and data from other wells in the same area, or more fully explored prospects, will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, in commercial quantities. Further, drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of numerous factors, including unexpected or adverse drilling conditions; title problems; elevated pressure or lost circulation in formations; equipment failures or accidents; adverse weather conditions; compliance with environmental and other governmental or contractual requirements; and increase in the cost of, shortages or delays in the availability of, electricity, supplies, materials, drilling or workover rigs, equipment and services. We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired assets or businesses, and any inability to do so may disrupt our business and hinder our ability to grow. In the future, we may make acquisitions of assets or businesses that complement or expand our current business. However, there is no guarantee we will be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. In the event we are able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms. Competition for acquisitions may also increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. The success of any completed acquisition will depend on our ability to integrate effectively the acquired assets or business. The process of integrating acquired assets or businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of managerial and financial resources. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and for purchase prices significantly higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, which may cause the market price of our Class A Common Stock to decline. In addition, our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, Certificate of Designation for the Series B Preferred Stock filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on December 8, 2017 ( Series B Certificate of Designation ) and the Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 8, 2017 (as amended by the Limited Consent and First Amendment to the Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 28, 2018, the Note Purchase Agreement ) impose, and future debt agreements may impose, among other things, limitations on our ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions. See Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Restrictions in our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, Certificate of Designation for the Series B Preferred Stock and the Note Purchase Agreement limit, and our future debt agreements could limit, our ability to engage in certain activities. Such limitations may also restrict our ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit our ability to engage in acquisitions of assets or businesses. 34 We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions of properties. The successful acquisition of properties requires an assessment of several factors, including recoverable reserves; future oil and natural gas prices and their applicable differentials; geological risks; access to markets; operating costs; and potential environmental and other liabilities. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. However, these reviews will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. Certain of our properties are subject to land use restrictions, which could limit the manner in which we conduct our business. In order to bring equipment, supplies, water, personnel and produced products to and from certain of our properties, we and or our contractors must obtain permissions or rights of way from other parties, including private property owners and governmental agencies. There is no guarantee that we or our contractors will be able to obtain or continue to obtain those permissions or rights or to obtain them at a reasonable cost. In addition, certain of our properties are subject to land use restrictions, including ordinances, which could limit the manner in which we conduct our business. Although n1 of our proposed drilling locations associated with proved undeveloped reserves as of December 31, 2018 are on properties currently subject to such land use restrictions, such restrictions may become effective in the future. All of the permissions, rights of way and restrictions discussed above could affect, among other things, our access to and the permissible uses of our facilities as well as the manner in which we produce oil and natural gas and may restrict or prohibit drilling in general. The costs incurred to comply with such restrictions may be significant in nature, and we may experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of development activities and may even be precluded from the drilling of wells. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our development plans within our budget and on a timely basis. We do not own any drilling rigs, nor do we own other equipment and supplies that are critical to our continuing ability to drill for and produce oil, gas and NGLs. We are dependent on access to qualified and competent contractors for such equipment and supplies, as well as the personnel to engage in our drilling and production program. The demand for drilling rigs, pipe and other equipment and supplies, as well as for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry, can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Our operations are concentrated in areas in which industry has increased rapidly, and as a result, demand for such drilling rigs, equipment and personnel, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas, has increased, as have the costs for those Item. We may not be able to renew or obtain new drilling contracts for rigs whose contracts are expiring or are terminated or obtain drilling contracts for our uncontracted new builds. Any delay or inability to secure the personnel, including frac crews, equipment, power, services, resources and facilities access necessary for us to increase our development activities could result in production volumes being below our forecasted volumes. In addition, any such negative effect on production volumes, or significant increases in costs, could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and profitability. Furthermore, if we are unable to secure a sufficient number of drilling rigs at reasonable costs, we may not be able to drill all of our acreage before our leases expire. 35 We could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. These increases could reduce our profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. Historically, our capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, natural gas and NGL prices. These cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond our control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that we and our vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. Decreased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to declining costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. However, such costs may rise faster than increases in our revenue if commodity prices rise, thereby negatively impacting our profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. This impact may be magnified to the extent that our ability to participate in the commodity price increases is limited by our prior or future commodity derivative activities. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the Domenici Barton Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 ( NGPA ) to impose penalties of up to $1,238,271 per day for each violation for current violations and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non FERC jurisdictional operations to FERC annual reporting and posting requirements. We also must comply with the anti market manipulation rules enforced by FERC. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce, while potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations pursuant to the federal Clean Air Act that, among other things, require preconstruction and operating permits for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that otherwise require such permits for non GHG emissions. Facilities required to obtain preconstruction permits for their GHG emissions are also required to meet best available control technology standards that are being established by the states or, in some cases, by the EPA on a case by case basis. These regulatory requirements could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production sources in the United States on an annual basis, which include certain of our operations. Furthermore, in June 2016, the EPA finalized rules that establish new controls for emissions of methane from new, modified or reconstructed sources in the oil and natural gas source category, including production, processing, transmission and storage activities. The rules include first time standards to address emissions of methane from equipment and processes across the source category, including hydraulically fractured oil and natural gas well completions. However, in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of the June 2016 standards for 2 years and re evaluate the entirety of the 2016 standards, but the EPA has not yet published a final rule and, as a result, the June 2016 rule remains in effect but future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time. In February 2018, the EPA finalized amendments to some of the requirements of the June 2016 rule, although the EPA reconsideration of the aspects of the rule is ongoing. To the extent implemented, compliance with these rules would require enhanced record keeping practices, the purchase of new equipment, such as optical gas imaging instruments to detect leaks, and increased frequency of maintenance and repair activities to address emissions leakage. The rules would also likely require additional personnel time to support these activities or the engagement of third party contractors to assist with and verify compliance. Although on September 11, 2018, the EPA issued propose revisions to the New Source Performance Standards applicable to new and modified oil and gas sources, which would reduce the monitoring obligations for wells and compressor stations, new rules related to the reduction of methane and GHG emissions could result in increased compliance costs on our operations. There have not been significant legislative proposals to reduce GHG emissions at the federal level in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional programs and initiatives have been enacted or are being considered that are aimed at tracking and or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs, direct taxation of carbon emissions, or that promote the use of less carbon intensive fuels. At the international level, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France, which resulted in an agreement (the Paris Agreement ) that requires member countries to review and represent a progression in their intended nationally determined contributions, and set GHG emission reduction goals every five years 36 beginning in 2020. The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016. Although this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions, it does include pledges from the participating nations to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. In June 2017, President Trump stated that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement, but may enter into a future international agreement related to GHGs on different terms. In August 2017, the U.S. Department of State provided official notice to the United Nations of the United States intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement provides for a four year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States adherence to the exit process is uncertain and or the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. Substantial limitations on GHG emissions could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce and lower the value of our reserves. Recently, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for exploration and production activities. Notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and that oil and gas will continue to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts and other climatic events. Our operations are onshore and not located in coastal or flood pr1 regions of the United States, but if any such effects were to occur, they have the potential to cause physical damage to our assets or affect the availability of water for our operations and thus could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells and adversely affect our production. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of oil and or natural gas from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, proppants and chemicals under pressure into targeted subsurface formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We regularly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations and expect to continue that practice. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the federal SDWA over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and published permitting guidance in February 2014 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. The EPA has also issued final regulations under the federal Clean Air Act establishing performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during hydraulic fracturing; and also finalized rules in June 2016 that prohibit the discharge of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants. In December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The final report concluded that water cycle activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under some circumstances, noting that the following hydraulic fracturing water cycle activities and local or regional scale factors are more likely than others to result in more frequent or more severe impacts water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability; surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water; injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity; injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources; discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters; and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits. As described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, these risks are regulated under various federal, state and local laws. The EPA study report did not find a direct link between the action of hydraulically fracturing the well itself and contamination of groundwater resources. The study report does not, therefore, appear to provide a reasonable basis to expect Congress to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA at the federal level. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. For example, in May 2013, the Railroad Commission of Texas issued a well integrity rule, which updates the requirements for drilling, putting pipe down and cementing wells. The rule includes testing and reporting requirements, such as (i) the requirement to submit cementing reports after well completion or after cessation of drilling, whichever is later, and (ii) the imposition of additional testing on wells less than 1,000 feet below usable groundwater. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. If new or more stringent 37 federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of development activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. Legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity could restrict our drilling and production activities, as well as our ability to dispose of produced water, including saltwater, gathered from such activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. State and federal regulatory agencies recently have focused on a possible connection between hydraulic fracturing related activities and the increased occurrence of seismic activity, and regulatory agencies at all levels are continuing to study the possible linkage between oil and gas activity and induced seismicity. In 2015, the United States Geological Survey identified eight states, including Texas, with areas of increased rates of induced seismicity that could be attributed to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction. In addition, a number of lawsuits have been filed in other states, for example recent lawsuits in Oklahoma, alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. In response to these concerns, regulators in some states are seeking to impose additional requirements, including requirements on the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, in October 2014, the Railroad Commission of Texas published a rule governing permitting or re permitting of disposal wells that would require, among other things, the submission of information on seismic events occurring within a specified radius of the disposal well location, as well as logs, geologic cross sections and structure maps relating to the disposal area in question. If the permittee or an applicant for a disposal well permit fails to demonstrate that the saltwater or other fluids are confined to the disposal z1 or if scientific data indicates that such a disposal well is likely to be or determined to be contributing to seismic activity, then the agency may deny, modify, suspend or terminate the permit application or existing operating permit for that well. The Oklahoma Corporation Commission also released well completion seismicity guidelines in December 2016 for operators in the SCOOP and STACK that call for hydraulic fracturing operations to be suspended following earthquakes of certain magnitudes in the vicinity. In addition, in February 2017, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission Oil and Gas Conservation Division issued an order limiting future increases in the volume of oil and natural gas wastewater injected into the ground in an effort to reduce the number of earthquakes in the state. It is possible that similar measures could be implemented in the areas where we operate. We dispose of large volumes of produced water, including saltwater, gathered from our drilling and production operations using disposal wells pursuant to permits issued by governmental authorities overseeing such disposal activities and pursuant to permissions granted by the owners of properties where the disposal wells are located. While these permits are issued in accordance with existing laws and regulations, these legal requirements are subject to change, as are the permissions granted by property owners. Any changes could result in the imposition of more stringent operating constraints or new monitoring and reporting requirements, owing to, among other things, concerns of the public or governmental authorities or property owners regarding such gathering or disposal activities. The adoption and implementation of any new laws or regulations or changes that restrict our expected ability to use hydraulic fracturing or dispose of produced water gathered from our drilling and production activities, either by limiting disposal volumes, disposal well locations or otherwise, or requiring us to shut down disposal wells, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties, market oil or natural gas and secure trained personnel. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. In addition, other companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than we are able to offer. The cost to attract and retain qualified personnel may increase substantially in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 38 The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect our operations. We depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. On May 2, 2018, J.A. (Alan) Townsend, our President and Chief Executive Officer, informed our board of directors of his intent to retire from his position as President and Chief Executive Officer and as a director of the Company. Mr. Townsend continued to serve in his capacity as Director, President and Chief Executive Officer until September 4, 2018, at which point Gary C. Hanna, the Chairman of our board of directors, was appointed interim President and Chief Executive Officer while the Company searches for a permanent replacement. On March 11, 2019, we announced the hiring of David L. French to succeed Gary C. Hanna as our President and Chief Executive Officer. Loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is difficult to evaluate because it may be susceptible to the potential difficulties associated with rapid growth and expansion. Our assets have grown rapidly over the last several years. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to manage the rapid growth that we have experienced and the demands from increased responsibility on management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties increased responsibilities for our executive level personnel; increased administrative burden; increased capital requirements; and increased organizational challenges common to large, expansive operations. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we do not successfully manage these potential difficulties. The historical financial information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K is not necessarily indicative of the results that may be realized in the future. We identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the prior year and may identify additional material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, which may result in material misstatements of our financial statements or cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations. We are required to comply with certain provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 ( Sarbanes Oxley Act ). Section 404 requires that we document and test our internal control over financial reporting and issue management assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2017, we identified and disclosed material weaknesses related to the lack of sufficient qualified accounting personnel and inadequately designed accounting processes, which led to the incorrect application of generally accepted accounting principles, ineffective controls over accounting for non routine and or complex transactions, and ineffective controls over the financial statement close and reporting processes. To remediate the material weaknesses, we have recruited technical accounting and finance personnel and have made significant advancements to our processes and internal controls surrounding non routine and complex arrangements to strengthen our financial reporting processes. Based on testing performed by management, we believe the implemented controls are operating effectively and the prior year material weaknesses have been remediated as of December 31, 2018. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, the accuracy and timeliness of the filing of our annual and quarterly reports may be materially adversely affected and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could result in an increased chance of fraud and the loss of customers, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures to comply with these requirements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our disposition activities may be subject to factors beyond our control, and in certain cases we may retain unforeseen liabilities for certain matters. We have regularly sold non core assets in order to increase capital resources available for other core assets and to create organizational and operational efficiencies. We have also occasionally sold interests in core assets for the purpose of accelerating the development and increasing efficiencies in such core assets. Various factors could materially affect our ability to dispose of 39 such assets in the future, including the approvals of governmental agencies or third parties and the availability of purchasers willing to acquire the assets with terms we deem acceptable. Sellers often retain certain liabilities or agree to indemnify buyers for certain matters related to the sold assets. The magnitude of any such retained liability or of the indemnification obligation is difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately could be material. Also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release us from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. As a result, after a divestiture, we may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. The standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves and our PV 10 are not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated proved oil, natural gas and NGL reserves. The present value of future net cash flow from our proved reserves, or standardized measure, and our related PV 10 calculation, may not represent the current market value of our estimated proved oil, natural gas and NGL reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flow from our estimated proved reserves on the 12 month average prices, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average for the first day of the month price for each month and costs in effect as of the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the properties. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate, and future net present value estimates using then current prices and costs may be significantly less than current estimates. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flow for reporting requirements in compliance with the Financial Accounting Standard Board Codification 932, Extractive Activities Oil and Gas, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes is subject to limitation. As of December 31, 2018, we have approximately $38.1 million of U.S. federal operating loss carryforwards ( NOLs ), which will begin to expire in 2035. Utilization of these NOLs depends on many factors, including our future income, which cannot be assured. In addition, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Section 382 ), generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of NOLs that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has underg1 an ownership change (as determined under Section 382). An ownership change generally occurs if 1 or more shareholders (or a group of shareholders) who are each deemed to own at least 5% of our stock change their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage during a rolling 3 year period. In the event that an ownership change has occurred, or were to occur, utilization of our NOLs in existence at the time of the ownership change would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382, determined by multiplying the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable long term tax exempt rate as defined in Section 382, subject to certain adjustments. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until they expire. We believe we experienced an ownership change as a result of the Transaction on April 27, 2017, and our NOLs at the time of the Transaction are subject to limitation under Section 382 of the Code, which may cause U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitation were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. To the extent we are not able to offset our future income with our NOLs, this would adversely affect our operating results and cash flows if we attain profitability. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. We depend on computer and telecommunications systems and failures in our systems or cyber security attacks could significantly disrupt our business operations. Our business has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct day to day operations including certain exploration, development and production activities. We have entered into agreements with third parties for hardware, software, telecommunications and other information technology services in connection with our business. In addition, we have developed proprietary software systems, management techniques and other information technologies incorporating software licensed from third parties. We depend on digital technology, including information systems and related infrastructure as well as cloud applications and services, to process and record financial and operating data, analyze seismic and drilling information, conduct reservoir modeling and reserves estimation, communicate with employees and business associates, perform compliance reporting and in many other activities related to our business. Our business associates, including vendors, service providers, purchasers of our production and financial institutions, are also dependent on digital technology. 40 As dependence on digital technologies has increased, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, have also increased. Our technologies, systems, ne2rks and those of our business associates may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches, which could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or protected information, corruption of data or other disruptions of our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. It is possible we could incur interruptions from cyber security attacks, computer viruses or malware. We believe that we have positive relations with our related business associates, including vendors, and maintain adequate anti virus and malware software and controls; however, any interruptions to our arrangements with third parties to our computing and communications infrastructure or our information systems could significantly disrupt our business operations. A cyber attack involving our information systems and related infrastructure, or that of our business associates, could disrupt our business and negatively impact our operations in a variety of ways, including; unauthorized access to seismic data, reserves information, strategic information or other sensitive or proprietary information could have a negative impact on our ability to compete for oil and natural gas resources; unauthorized access to personal identifying information of royalty owners, partners, employees and vendors, which could expose us to allegations that we did not sufficiently protect that information; data corruption or operational disruption of production infrastructure could result in loss of production, or accidental discharge; a cyber attack on a vendor or service provider could result in supply chain disruptions which could delay or halt our major development projects; and a cyber attack on a third party gathering, pipeline or rail service provider could delay or prevent us from marketing our production, resulting in a loss of revenues. These events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. To date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks; however, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Our derivative transactions expose us to counterparty credit risk. Our derivative transactions expose us to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract. Disruptions in the financial markets could lead to sudden decreases in a counterparty liquidity, which could make them unable to perform under the terms of the derivative contract and we may not be able to realize the benefit of the derivative contract. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids production, we have entered into oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our anticipated production and we may enter into additional hedging transactions in the future. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile commodity prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains and increase our potential losses if commodity prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which our production is less than expected; there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production; or the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts. 41 The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effects of commodity prices, interest rates and other risks associated with our business. Historically, we have entered into a number of commodity derivative contracts in order to hedge a portion of our oil and natural gas production. On July 21, 2010, then President Obama signed into law the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd Frank Act, which requires the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ( CFTC ), along with other federal agencies, to promulgate regulations implementing the new legislation. The CFTC has finalized other regulations implementing the Dodd Frank Act provisions regarding trade reporting, margin, clearing and trade execution; however, some regulations remain to be finalized and it is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will adopt final rules. For example, the CFTC has re proposed regulations setting position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions are expected to be made exempt from these limits. Also, it is possible that under recently adopted margin rules, some registered swap dealers may require us to post initial and variation margins in connection with certain swaps not subject to central clearing. The Dodd Frank Act and any additional implementing regulations could significantly increase the cost of some commodity derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of some commodity derivative contracts, limit our ability to trade some derivatives to hedge risks, reduce the availability of some derivatives to protect against risks we encounter and reduce our ability to m1tize or restructure our existing commodity derivative contracts. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a consequence, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Increased volatility may make us less attractive to certain types of investors. Finally, the Dodd Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. If the implementing regulations result in lower commodity prices, our revenues could be adversely affected. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future regulations relating to and interpretations of recently enacted U.S. federal income tax legislation may vary from our current interpretation of such legislation. The U.S. federal income tax legislation recently enacted in Public Law No. 115 97, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act ), is highly complex and subject to interpretation. The presentation of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our current interpretation of the provisions contained in the Tax Act. In the future, the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service are expected to release regulations relating to and interpretive guidance of the legislation contained in the Tax Act. Any significant variance of our current interpretation of such legislation from any future regulations or interpretive guidance could result in a change to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our business. Changes to state tax laws in response to recently enacted U.S. federal tax legislation. Currently, many states conform their calculation of corporate taxable income to the calculation of corporate taxable income at the U.S. federal level. Due to recently enacted changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, certain states may change or modify the calculation of corporate taxable income at the state level. Any resulting increase in costs due to such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Negative public perception regarding us and or our industry could have an adverse effect on our operations. Negative public perception regarding us and or our industry resulting from, among other things, concerns raised by advocacy groups about hydraulic fracturing, seismicity, oil spills and explosions of natural gas transmission lines, may lead to regulatory scrutiny, which may, in turn, lead to new state and federal safety and environmental laws, regulations, guidelines and enforcement interpretations. These actions may cause operational delays or restrictions, increased operating costs, additional regulatory burdens and increased risk of litigation. Moreover, governmental authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance and the public may engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Negative public perception could cause the permits we need to conduct our operations to be withheld, delayed, or burdened by requirements that restrict our ability to profitably conduct our business. 42 Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We may incur substantial additional debt, which could decrease our ability to maintain operations or service existing debt obligations. Subject to the restrictions in our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, Series B Certificate of Designation and the Note Purchase Agreement (as defined below), we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. We may also consider investments in joint ventures or acquisitions that may increase our indebtedness. Adding new debt to then existing debt levels could intensify the operational risks that we now face. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under applicable debt instruments, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our indebtedness obligations, including our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and $100 million aggregate principal amount of 10.00% Senior Secured Lien Notes issued on December 8, 2017 (the Second Lien Notes ), depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our current and future indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more 1rous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet debt service and other obligations. Our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, Series B Certificate of Designation and the Note Purchase Agreement restrict, among other things, our ability to dispose of assets and our use of the proceeds from such disposition. See Restrictions in our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, Certificate of Designation for the Series B. Preferred Stock and the Note Purchase Agreement limit, and our future debt agreements could limit, our ability to engage in certain activities. Preferred Stock and the Note Purchase Agreement limit, and our future debt agreements could limit, our ability to engage in certain activities. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and the proceeds of any such disposition may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations. Restrictions in our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, Certificate of Designation for the Series B Preferred Stock and the Note Purchase Agreement limit, and our future debt agreements could limit, our ability to engage in certain activities. Our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, Series B Certificate of Designation and the Note Purchase Agreement contain, and our future debt agreements may contain, a number of significant covenants, including restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things incur additional indebtedness; be liable in respect of any third party guaranty; incur liens; make loans to others; make investments; pay dividends or make distributions to third parties; liquidate, merge or consolidate with another entity; 43 enter into commodity hedges exceeding a specified percentage of our expected production; enter into interest rate hedges exceeding a specified percentage of our outstanding indebtedness; sell properties or assets; issue additional shares of capital stock; and engage in certain other transactions without the prior consent of the holders of the Second Lien Notes, the Series B Preferred Stock and or JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the lenders under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. In addition, our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement requires us to maintain the following financial ratios (1) a current ratio, which is the ratio of consolidated current assets (including unused commitments under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, but excluding non cash assets) to consolidated current liabilities (excluding non cash obligations, reclamation obligations to the extent classified as current liabilities and current maturities under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement), of not less than 10 to 10, and (2) a leverage ratio, which is the ratio of the sum of all of our Total Debt to Annualized EBITDAX (as such terms are defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) for the four fiscal quarters (or other applicable period) then ended, of not greater than 4.00 to 100 and (3) a coverage ratio, which is the ratio of (i) EBITDAX (as defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) to (ii) the sum of (x) Interest Expense (as such terms are defined in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement) plus (y) the aggregate amount of Restricted Payments made in cash pursuant to Sections 9.04(a)(iv) and (v) of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, during the preceding four fiscal quarters, of not less than 25 to 10. Failure to do so could result in mandatory or full repayment of the indebtedness. The senior secured credit facility also does not permit us to borrow funds if at the time of such borrowing, we are not in pro forma compliance with the financial covenants. Although as of December 31, 2018 we were in compliance with the current ratio covenant, if we do not sufficiently reduce our capital expenditures in the future or obtain additional financing prior to our next borrowing base redetermination date, we may be required to seek a waiver from our lenders with respect to our compliance with our current ratio covenant. There can be no assurance that the lenders will grant a waiver. Our next scheduled redetermination date is April 1, 2019, although we have the right to request a redetermination prior to that date. A breach of any covenant in our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the current ratio covenant, likely would result in a default under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement after any applicable grace periods. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the indebtedness outstanding under our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and in a default with respect to, and an acceleration of, the indebtedness outstanding under other debt agreements. The accelerated indebtedness may become immediately due and payable. If that occurs, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. If an event of default occurs under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. will have the right to proceed against the pledged capital stock and take control of substantially all of our material operating subsidiaries that are guarantors assets. The results of such action would have a significant negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to pay dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock in any fiscal quarter, the dividend rate will increase from 10% to 12% per annum on the $1,000 liquidation preference per share of Series B Preferred Stock until such dividends are paid in full. In addition, if the Company fails to pay dividends for 3 out of four consecutive fiscal quarters or for six quarters (whether or not consecutive), then a representative appointed by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall have the right to appoint 1 director to our board of directors, and we shall be required to seek the approval of such representative for certain corporate actions, in each case, until 3 months following the date on which such dividends are paid in full. The restrictions in our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, Series B Certificate of Designation and the Note Purchase Agreement limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, Series B Certificate of Designation and the Note Purchase Agreement impose on us. 44 Any significant reduction in the borrowing base under our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement as a result of the periodic borrowing base redeterminations or otherwise may negatively impact our ability to fund our operations. Our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement limits the amounts we can borrow up to a borrowing base amount, which the lenders, in their sole discretion, determine at certain periods throughout the year. The borrowing base depends on, among other things, projected revenues from, and asset values of, the oil and natural gas properties securing our loan. If we do not furnish the information required for the redetermination by the specified date, the lender may n1theless redetermine the borrowing base in their sole discretion until the relevant information is received. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (or a replacement facility) as a result of a decrease in our borrowing base due to the issuance of new indebtedness, the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination or an unwillingness or inability on the part of lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations and the inability of other lenders to provide additional funding to cover the defaulting lender portion. Declines in commodity prices could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base in the future and, in such a case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the redetermined borrowing base. As a result, we may be unable to implement our respective drilling and development plan, make acquisitions or otherwise carry out business plans, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service our indebtedness. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement is subject to similar or greater interest rate expenses. Recent and continuing disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve planned growth and operating results. Uncertainty about the future of the London Interbank Offer Rate ( LIBOR ) may adversely affect our business and financial results. LIBOR meaningfully influences market interest rates around the globe. In July 2017, the Chief Executive of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced its intent to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR to the administrator of LIBOR after 2021 This announcement indicates that the continuation of LIBOR as currently constructed is not guaranteed after 2021 It is impossible to predict whether and to what extent banks will continue to provide LIBOR submissions to the administrator of LIBOR, whether any additional reforms to LIBOR may be enacted in the United Kingdom or elsewhere, and whether other rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to LIBOR. In 2014, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York convened the Alternative Reference Rates Committee ( ARRC ) to identify best practices for alternative reference rates, identify best practices for contract robustness, develop an adoption plan, and create an implementation plan with metrics of success and a timeline. The ARRC accomplished its first set of objectives and has identified the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ( SOFR ) as the rate that represents best practice for use in certain new U.S. dollar derivatives and other financial contracts. The ARRC also published its Paced Transition Plan, with specific steps and timelines designed to encourage adoption of the SOFR. The ARRC was reconstituted in 2018 to help to ensure the successful implementation of the Paced Transition Plan and serve as a forum to coordinate and track planning across cash and derivatives products and market participants currently using LIBOR. No assurance can be provided that the uncertainties around LIBOR or their resolution will not adversely affect the use, level and volatility of LIBOR or other interest rates or the value of LIBOR based securities or other securities or financial arrangements. Further, the viability of SOFR as an alternative reference rate and the availability and acceptance of other alternative reference rates are unclear and also may have adverse effects on market rates of interest and the value of securities and other financial arrangements. These uncertainties, proposals and actions to resolve them, and their ultimate resolution also could negatively impact our funding costs, loan and other asset values, asset liability management strategies, and other aspects of our business and financial results. We will monitor the continuous emergence of SOFR, as it could adversely impact our interest rate risk, and therefore the amount of interest we pay on liabilities currently measured at LIBOR. 45 Risks Related to the Class A Common Stock and Our Capital Structure We are a holding company. Our sole material asset is our equity interest in Rosehill Operating and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from Rosehill Operating to pay taxes, make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, cover our corporate and other overhead expenses and make payments with respect to our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than our equity interest in Rosehill Operating. We have no independent means of generating revenue. To the extent Rosehill Operating has available cash, we intend to cause Rosehill Operating to make (i) generally pro rata distributions to its unitholders, including us, in an amount at least sufficient to allow us to pay dividends with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock, pay our taxes and to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement with Tema and (ii) non pro rata payments to us to reimburse us for our corporate and other overhead expenses. To the extent that we need funds and Rosehill Operating or its subsidiaries are restricted from making such distributions or payments under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of any financing arrangements, or are otherwise unable to provide such funds, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The market price of the Class A Common Stock may decline. Fluctuations in the price of the Class A Common Stock could contribute to the loss of all or part of your investment. The trading price of the Class A Common Stock could be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Any of the factors listed below could have a material adverse effect on your investment and the Class A Common Stock may trade at prices significantly below the price you paid for them. In such circumstances, the trading price of the Class A Common Stock may not recover and may experience a further decline. Factors affecting the trading price of the Class A Common Stock may include actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in the market expectations about our operating results; success of competitors; our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning us or our markets in general; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; commencement of, or involvement in, litigation involving us, or developments in such litigation; changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; the volume of securities available for public sale; any major change in our board or management; sales of substantial amounts of our securities by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur; and general economic and political conditions such as recession; interest rate, fuel price and international currency fluctuations; and acts of war or terrorism. Many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. In addition, broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of the Class A Common Stock irrespective of our operating performance. The stock market in general and NASDAQ have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the particular companies affected. The trading prices and valuations of our Class A Common Stock and Public 46 Warrants, which trade on The NASDAQ Capital Market, may not be predictable. A loss of investor confidence in the market for retail stocks or the stocks of other companies which investors perceive to be similar to us could depress the price of the Class A Common Stock regardless of our business, prospects, financial conditions or results of operations. A decline in the market price of the Class A Common Stock also could adversely affect our ability to issue additional securities and our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding the Class A Common Stock adversely, the price and trading volume of the Class A Common Stock could decline. The trading market for the Class A Common Stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts and there can be no assurance that any will cover us in the future. Furthermore, if 1 or more analysts do cover us and downgrade or provide negative outlook on our stock or our industry, or the stock of any of our competitors, or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the price of the Class A Common Stock could decline. If 1 or more of these analysts commence and subsequently cease coverage of our business or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Tema and KLR Energy Sponsor, LLC ( KLR Sponsor ) own a significant percentage of our outstanding voting common stock. Tema and KLR Sponsor currently beneficially own approximately 715% of our voting common stock and, upon the conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock, will beneficially own approximately 629% of our voting common stock. As long as Tema and KLR Sponsor own or control a significant percentage of outstanding voting power, they will continue to have the ability to strongly influence all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and the size of our board of directors, any amendment of our charter or bylaws, or the approval of any merger or other significant corporate transaction, including a sale of substantially all of our assets. The interests of Tema and KLR Sponsor may not align with the interests of our other stockholders. Tema and KLR Sponsor may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Tema and KLR Sponsor may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. In addition, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation (the certificate of incorporation ), amended and restated bylaws and the Shareholders and Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2016, by and among the Company, Tema, KLR Sponsor, Anchorage Illiquid Opportunities V, L.P. and AIO V AIV 3 Holdings, L.P. (the SHRRA ), provide that, subject to certain limitations, we renounce any interest or expectancy in the business opportunities of our officers and directors and their respective affiliates and each such party shall not have any obligation to offer us those opportunities unless presented to 1 of our directors or officers in his or her capacity as a director or officer. We are currently a controlled company within the meaning of the NASDAQ listing rules, but may not retain that status in the event that we conduct equity offerings in the future. However, during the phase in period we may continue to rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of other companies. Because Tema and KLR Sponsor control a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our outstanding voting stock, we have been a controlled company under NASDAQ corporate governance listing standards. Under the NASDAQ rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; the nominating and governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee purpose and responsibilities; and the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee purpose and responsibilities. In the event that we conduct equity offerings in the future, Tema and KLR Sponsor may cease to control a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our outstanding voting stock. Accordingly, we may no longer be a controlled company within the meaning of the rules of NASDAQ. Under NASDAQ rules, a company that ceases to be a controlled company must comply with the independent board committee requirements as they relate to the nominating and corporate governance and 47 compensation committees on the following phase in schedule (1) 1 independent committee member at the time it ceases to be a controlled company, (2) a majority of independent committee members within 90 days of the date it ceases to be a controlled company and (3) all independent committee members within 1 year of the date it ceases to be a controlled company. Additionally, NASDAQ rules provide a 12 month phase in period from the date a company ceases to be a controlled company to comply with the majority independent board requirement. During these phase in periods, our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies of which the majority of directors are independent. Additionally, if, within the phase in periods, we are not able to recruit additional directors who would qualify as independent, or otherwise comply with NASDAQ rules, we may be subject to enforcement actions by NASDAQ. Furthermore, a change in our board of directors and committee membership may result in a change in corporate strategy and operation philosophies, and may result in deviations from our current growth strategy. The pro forma per share data included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K excludes the transaction costs attributable to the Transaction and may not be indicative of what our actual financial position or results of operations would have been had the Transaction not occurred. We incurred non recurring transaction costs that were directly attributable to the Transaction of $26 million and $28 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We did not incur any non recurring transaction costs that were directly attributable to the Transaction in 2018. The pro forma per share data included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K was calculated excluding transaction costs attributable to the Transaction and is presented for illustrative purposes only. The pro forma per share data is not necessarily indicative of what our actual financial position or results of operations would have been had the Transaction not been completed on the dates indicated. See Selected Financial Data. Future sales of our common stock could reduce our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute your ownership in us. We may sell additional shares of Class A Common Stock or securities convertible into Class A Common Stock in subsequent public or private offerings. On December 31, 2018, 13,760,136 shares of our Class A Common Stock were outstanding. Downward pressure on the market price of our Class A Common Stock that likely will result from sales of our Class A Common Stock issued in connection with the exercise of the warrants for shares of Class A Common Stock or the conversion of the Class B Common Stock or Series A Preferred Stock could encourage short sales of our Class A Common Stock by market participants. Generally, short selling means selling a security, contract or commodity not owned by the seller. The seller is committed to eventually purchase the financial instrument previously sold. Short sales are used to capitalize on an expected decline in the security price. Such sales of our Class A Common Stock could have a tendency to depress the price of the stock, which could increase the potential for short sales. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Class A Common Stock or securities convertible into Class A Common Stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our Class A Common Stock will have on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A Common Stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Shares of the Class A Common Stock are equity interests and are therefore subordinated to our indebtedness and preferred stock. In the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the Class A Common Stock would rank below our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock and all secured debt claims against us. As a result, holders of the Class A Common Stock will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up until all of our obligations to our secured debt holders and to holders of our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock have been satisfied. The Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock rank junior to all of our indebtedness and other liabilities. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or other winding up, our assets will be available to pay obligations on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock only after all of our indebtedness and other liabilities have been paid. In addition, we are a holding company and the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock will effectively rank junior to all existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables) of our subsidiaries and any capital stock of our subsidiaries not held by us. The rights of holders of the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock to 48 participate in the distribution of assets of our subsidiaries will rank junior to the prior claims of that subsidiary creditors and any other equity holders. Consequently, if we are forced to liquidate our assets to pay our creditors, we may not have sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock then outstanding. We and our subsidiaries may incur substantial amounts of additional debt and other obligations that will rank senior to the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock. We are not obligated to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock if prohibited by law and will not be able to pay cash dividends if we have insufficient cash to do so. Under Delaware law, dividends on capital stock may only be paid from surplus or, if there is no surplus, from the corporation net profits for the then current or the preceding fiscal year. Unless we operate profitably, our ability to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock would require the availability of adequate surplus, which is defined as the excess, if any, of our net assets (total assets less total liabilities) over our capital. Further, even if adequate surplus is available to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock, we may not have sufficient cash to pay cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock. We may elect to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock in shares of additional Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock, as applicable; however, our ability to pay dividends in shares of our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock may be limited by the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock we are authorized to issue under our certificate of incorporation. In the case of the Series B Preferred Stock, with respect to dividends declared for any quarter ending on or prior to January 15, 2019, the Company may elect to pay as dividends additional shares of Series B Preferred Stock in kind in an amount up to 40% of that which would have been payable had the dividends been fully paid in cash. As of December 31, 2018, we had 101,669 shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding and 156,746 shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding out of 1,000,000 authorized shares of preferred stock, 150,000 of which are designated as Series A Preferred Stock and 210,000 shares are designated as Series B Preferred Stock. The terms of our financing agreements may limit our ability to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock. Financing agreements, whether ours or those of our subsidiaries and whether in place now or in the future, may contain restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock, including the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock. These limitations may cause us to be unable to pay cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock. For example, the Credit Agreement will restrict our ability to pay cash dividends unless certain criteria are met. Since we are not obligated to declare or pay cash dividends, we do not intend to do so to the extent we are restricted by any of our financing agreements. The Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock do not have an established trading market, which may negatively affect their market value and the ability to transfer or sell such shares. The Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock do not have an established trading market. Since the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock have no stated maturity date, investors seeking liquidity will be limited to selling their shares in the secondary market or, in the case of holders of Series A Preferred Stock, converting their shares and selling in the secondary market. We do not intend to list the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock on any securities exchange. We cannot make any assurances that an active trading market in the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock will develop or, even if it develops, we cannot assure that it will last. In either case, the trading price of the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock could be adversely affected and the ability of holders of our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock to transfer their shares will be limited. We are not aware of any entity making a market in the shares of our Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock which we anticipate may further limit liquidity. Upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock, holders may receive less valuable consideration than expected because the value of our Class A Common Stock may decline after such holders exercise their conversion right but before we settle our conversion obligation. Under the Series A Preferred Stock, a converting holder will be exposed to fluctuations in the value of our Class A Common Stock during the period from the date such holder surrenders shares of Series A Preferred Stock for conversion until the date we settle our conversion obligation. Upon conversion, we will be required to deliver the shares of our Class A Common Stock, together with a cash payment for any fractional share, on the third business day following the relevant conversion date. Accordingly, if the price of our Class A Common Stock decreases during this period, the value of the shares of Class A Common Stock that holders 49 of Series A Preferred Stock receive will be adversely affected and would be less than the conversion value of the Series A Preferred Stock on the conversion date. The conversion rate of the Series A Preferred Stock may not be adjusted for all dilutive events. The number of shares of our Class A Common Stock that holders of our Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock is subject to adjustment for certain specified events, including, but not limited to, the issuance of certain stock dividends on our Class A Common Stock, the issuance of certain rights or warrants, subdivisions, combinations, distributions of capital stock, indebtedness, or assets, cash dividends and certain issuer tender or exchange offers, as set forth in the Certificate of Designation for the Series A Preferred Stock filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on April 27, 2017 ( Series A Certificate of Designation ). However, the conversion rate may not be adjusted for other events, such as the exercise of stock options held by our employees or offerings of our Class A Common Stock or securities convertible into Class A Common Stock (other than those set forth in the Series A Certificate of Designation) for cash or in connection with acquisitions, which may adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Further, if any of these other events adversely affects the market price of our Class A Common Stock, we expect it to also adversely affect the market price of our Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock do not restrict our ability to offer Class A Common Stock or securities convertible into Class A Common Stock in the future or to engage in other transactions that could dilute our Class A Common Stock. We have no obligation to consider the interests of the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock in engaging in any such offering or transaction. If we issue additional shares of Class A Common Stock, those issuances may materially and adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock and, in turn, those issuances may adversely affect the trading price of the Series A Preferred Stock. The additional shares of our Class A Common Stock deliverable for shares of Series A Preferred Stock converted in connection with a fundamental change may not adequately compensate holders of our Series A Preferred Stock. If a fundamental change (as defined in the Series A Certificate of Designation) occurs, we will under certain circumstances increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares of our Class A Common Stock for shares of Series A Preferred Stock converted in connection with such fundamental change as described in the Series A Certificate of Designation. While this feature is designed to, among other things, compensate holders of our Series A Preferred Stock for lost option time value of their shares of Series A Preferred Stock as a result of the fundamental change, it may not adequately compensate them for their loss as a result of such transaction. In addition, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will have no additional rights upon a fundamental change, and will have no right not to convert their shares of Series A Preferred Stock into shares of our Class A Common Stock. Any shares of Class A Common Stock such holders receive upon a fundamental change may be worth less than the liquidation preference per share of Series A Preferred Stock. Our obligation to satisfy the additional shares requirement could be considered a penalty, in which case the enforceability thereof would be subject to general principles of reasonableness and equitable remedies. In some limited circumstances, we may not have reserved a sufficient number of shares of our Class A Common Stock to issue the full amount of shares of Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion following a fundamental change. Some significant restructuring transactions may not constitute a fundamental change but may nevertheless result in holders of the Series A Preferred Stock being adversely affected. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the Series A Certificate of Designation), there may be an increase in the conversion rate as described in the Series A Certificate of Designation. However, these provisions will not afford protection to holders of Series A Preferred Stock in the event of other transactions that could adversely affect the value of the Series A Preferred Stock. For example, transactions such as leveraged recapitalizations, refinancings, restructurings, or acquisitions initiated by us may not constitute a fundamental change. In the event of any such transaction, holders would not have the protection afforded by the provisions applicable to a fundamental change even though each of these transactions could increase the amount of our indebtedness, or otherwise adversely affect our capital structure or any credit ratings, thereby adversely affecting the holders of Series A Preferred Stock. 50 Upon a conversion in connection with a fundamental change, holders of our Series A Preferred Stock may receive consideration worth less than the $1,000 liquidation preference per share of Series A Preferred Stock, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon. If a fundamental change (as defined in the Series A Certificate of Designation) occurs, and regardless of the price paid (or deemed paid) per share of our Class A Common Stock in such fundamental change, then the conversion rate may be adjusted to increase the number of the shares of our Class A Common Stock deliverable upon conversion of each share of Series A Preferred Stock to the $1,000 liquidation preference per share of Series A Preferred Stock, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon. However, under certain circumstances, holders may receive a number of shares of Class A Common Stock worth less than the $1,000 liquidation preference per share of Series A Preferred Stock, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have no claim against us for the difference between the value of the consideration they receive upon a conversion in connection with a fundamental change and the $1,000 liquidation preference per share of Series A Preferred Stock, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon. We may issue additional series of preferred stock that rank equally to the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock as to dividend payments and liquidation preference. Neither our certificate of incorporation, Series A Certificate of Designation nor Series B Certificate of Designation prohibit us from issuing additional series of preferred stock that would rank equally to the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock as to dividend payments and liquidation preference. Our certificate of incorporation, the Series A Certificate of Designation and the Series B Certificate of Designation provide that we have the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, including up to 150,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and 210,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock. The issuances of other series of preferred stock could have the effect of reducing the amounts available to the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock in the event of our liquidation, winding up or dissolution. It may also reduce cash dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock if we do not have sufficient funds to pay dividends on all outstanding Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock and parity preferred stock. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have no rights with respect to the shares of our Class A Common Stock underlying the Series A Preferred Stock until they convert their Series A Preferred Stock, but they may be adversely affected by certain changes made with respect to our Class A Common Stock. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock will have no rights with respect to the shares of our Class A Common Stock underlying their Series A Preferred Stock, including voting rights, rights to respond to Class A Common Stock tender offers, if any, and rights to receive dividends or other distributions on our Class A Common Stock, if any (in each case, other than through a conversion rate adjustment), prior to the conversion date with respect to a conversion of such holder Series A Preferred Stock, but the investment in our Series A Preferred Stock may be negatively affected by these events. Upon conversion, holders of our Series A Preferred Stock will be entitled to exercise the rights of a holder of Class A Common Stock only as to matters for which the relevant record date occurs on or after the conversion date. For example, in the event that an amendment is proposed to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws requiring stockholder approval and the record date for determining the stockholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to the conversion date, holders of our Series A Preferred Stock will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although they will nevertheless be subject to any changes in the powers, preferences or special rights of our Class A Common Stock. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock will have no voting rights except under limited circumstances. Except with respect to certain material and adverse changes to the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock as described in the Series A Certificate of Designation and the Series B Certificate of Designation, respectively, holders of our preferred stock do not have voting rights and have no right to vote for any members of our board of directors, except as may be required by Delaware law. We may not have sufficient earnings and profits in order for distributions on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock to be treated as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Distributions payable by us on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock may exceed our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as calculated for U.S. federal income tax purposes. To the extent that the amount of a distribution with respect to our Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock exceeds our current and accumulated earnings and profits, such distribution will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a return of capital and first be applied against and reduce the beneficial owner adjusted tax basis in the Series A Preferred Stock or the Series B Preferred Stock, but not below zero. Any 51 excess over such adjusted tax basis will be treated as capital gain. Such treatment will generally be unfavorable for corporate beneficial owners and may also be unfavorable to certain other beneficial owners. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock may be subject to tax if we make or fail to make certain adjustments to the conversion rate of the Series A Preferred Stock even though they do not receive a corresponding cash distribution. The conversion rate of the Series A Preferred Stock is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, including the payment of cash dividends. If the conversion rate is adjusted as a result of a distribution that is taxable to our common stockholders, such as a cash dividend, holders of our Series A Preferred Stock may be deemed to have received a dividend subject to U.S. federal income tax without the receipt of any cash. In addition, a failure to adjust (or to adjust adequately) the conversion rate after an event that increases the proportionate interest of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock in us could be treated as a deemed taxable dividend to such holders. If a fundamental change (as defined in the Series A Certificate of Designation) occurs, under some circumstances, we will increase the conversion rate for shares of Series A Preferred Stock converted in connection with such fundamental change. If a holder of the Series A Preferred Stock is not a non U.S. holder (as defined below), any deemed dividend may be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax at a 30% rate, or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable income tax treaty, which may be set off against subsequent payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. A non U.S. holder is a beneficial owner of our common stock that is not for U.S. federal income tax purposes a partnership or any of the following (i) an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States; (ii) a corporation (or other entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes) created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia; (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income tax regardless of its source; or (iv) a trust (i) the administration of which is subject to the primary supervision of a U.S. court and which has 1 or more United States persons who have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust or (ii) which has made a valid election under applicable U.S. Treasury regulations to be treated as a United States person. If a holder of our Series A Preferred Stock is a non U.S. holder, dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock that are paid in shares may be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax in the same manner as a cash dividend, which the withholding agent might satisfy through a sale of a portion of the shares such holder receives as a dividend or through withholding of other amounts payable to such holder. We may elect to pay dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock in shares of Series A Preferred Stock rather than in cash. Any such stock dividends paid to a holder of our Series A Preferred Stock will be taxable in the same manner as cash dividends and, if such holder is a non U.S. holder, may be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax at a 30% rate, or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable income tax treaty. Any required withholding tax might be satisfied by the withholding agent through a sale of a portion of the shares holders of our Series A Preferred Stock receive as a dividend or might be withheld from cash dividends or sales proceeds subsequently paid or credited to such holders. Non U.S. holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock or our Class A Common Stock could, in certain situations, be subject to U.S. federal income tax upon a sale, exchange, conversion or other disposition of such stock. We believe that we are a United States real property holding corporation and likely will remain 1 in the foreseeable future. As a result, non U.S. holders that own (or are treated as owning under constructive ownership rules) more than a specified amount of our Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock or our Class A Common Stock during a specified time period may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on a sale, exchange, conversion or other disposition of such stock and may be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return. Because we currently have no plans to pay cash dividends on our Class A Common Stock, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your Class A Common Stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. We currently do not expect to pay any cash dividends on our Class A Common Stock. Any future determination to pay cash dividends or other distributions on our Class A Common Stock will be at the discretion of the board of directors and will be dependent on our earnings, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and contractual, regulatory and other restrictions, including restrictions contained in the senior secured credit facility or agreements governing any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries may incur, on the payment of dividends by us or by our subsidiaries to us, and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our Class A Common Stock unless you sell shares of Class A Common Stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. 52 Some of our total outstanding shares are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the future. This could cause the market price of our Class A Common Stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. As of December 31, 2018, KLR Sponsor and Tema held approximately 715% of our issued and outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock, including Class A Common Stock issuable upon exchange of Class B Common Stock. The SHRRA restricts, except in certain circumstances, KLR Sponsor, Tema and permitted transferees from transferring 67% of their common stock until 2 years following the date of consummation of the Transaction. The market price of our Class A Common Stock could decline if the holders of previously restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. Additionally, the Tax Receivable Agreement grants Tema the right to prevent certain dispositions of the assets we acquired in the Transaction for a period of up to 3 years following the closing of the Transaction. Additionally, in connection with the Transaction, we issued a total of 95,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock (convertible into Class A Common Stock) and 9,000,000 warrants (exercisable for shares of Class A Common Stock), and have a total of 25,594,158 warrants outstanding at December 31, 2018. To the extent the Class A Common Stock that is issuable upon conversion or exercise of these securities is sold, the market price of our Class A Common Stock could decline. Holders of our Series B Preferred Stock have certain limited consent rights that could prevent us from taking certain corporate actions, and as a result may adversely affect our business, operating results and stock price. Holders of our Series B Preferred Stock have certain limited consent rights with respect to our ability to take certain corporate actions, including the following the issuance, authorization or creation of any class or series of stock senior to or on par with the Series B Preferred Stock; the incurrence of additional indebtedness, provided that such indebtedness may be incurred if, after giving pro forma effect to the incurrence and any application of the proceeds thereof, we maintain a Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Series A Certificate of Designation) of less than 4.00 to 100; the issuance or incurrence of high yield debt, unless the debt (A) does not have an all in interest rate together with any comp1nt of yield greater than the Second Lien Notes (as defined below) and a make whole provision less favorable than the Second Lien Notes and (B) is used to refinance the Second Lien Notes; the entry into any joint venture agreement or issuance of equity securities of our subsidiaries, other than to us or our wholly owned subsidiaries; sales of certain property having a fair market value greater than $15.0 million in any fiscal year and $40.0 million in the aggregate; and certain property acquisitions or investments in excess of $15.0 million in any fiscal year and $40.0 million in the aggregate, unless such acquisitions or investments are financed solely using our common equity (or cash proceeds of the issuance of our common equity). The consent rights of the holders of our Series B Preferred Stock could prevent us from obtaining future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities, and as a result may adversely affect our business, operating results and stock price. Anti takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. We are also subject to anti takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. These provisions include a staggered board providing for 3 classes of directors, which limits the ability of a stockholder or group to gain control of our board; 53 no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; the right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director in certain circumstances, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; the ability of our board of directors to determine whether to issue shares of our preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; the ability of each of Tema or KLR Sponsor to call a special meeting of stockholders, provided that such person owns 15% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock until the Trigger Date, and thereafter prohibit such ability; a prohibition on stockholders calling a special meeting upon and following the Trigger Date, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders called by the board; the requirement that a meeting of stockholders may be called only by the board of directors after the Trigger Date, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; providing that after the Trigger Date directors may be removed prior to the expiration of their terms by stockholders only for cause or upon the affirmative vote of 75% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of the combined company; a requirement that changes or amendments to the certificate of incorporation or the bylaws must be approved (i) before the Trigger Date, by a majority of the voting power of outstanding common stock of the combined company, which such majority shall include at least 80% of the shares then held by KLR Sponsor and Tema, and (ii) thereafter, certain changes or amendments must be approved by at least 75% of the voting power of outstanding common stock of the combined company; and advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company. Changes in laws or regulations, or a failure to comply with any laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business, investments and results of operations. We are subject to laws, regulations and rules enacted by national, regional and local governments and NASDAQ. In particular, we are required to comply with certain SEC, NASDAQ and other legal or regulatory requirements. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws, regulations and rules may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws, regulations and rules and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and rules, as interpreted and applied, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may be required to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement for certain tax benefits that we may claim, and the amounts of such payments could be significant. In connection with the closing of the Transaction, we entered into the Tax Receivable Agreement with Tema. This agreement generally provides for the payment by us to Tema of 90% of the net cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax and franchise tax that we actually realize (computed using simplifying assumptions to address the impact of state and local taxes) or are deemed to realize in certain circumstances in periods after the Transaction as a result of certain increases in the tax basis in the assets of Rosehill Operating and certain benefits attributable to imputed interest. We will retain the benefit of the remaining 10% of these cash savings. The term of the Tax Receivable Agreement will continue until all tax benefits that are subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement have been utilized or expired, unless we exercise our right to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement early within thirty (30) days of certain mergers or other changes of control (or the Tax Receivable Agreement is terminated early due to our breach of a material obligation thereunder), and we make the termination payment specified in the Tax Receivable Agreement. In addition, payments we make under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be increased by any interest accrued from the due date (without extensions) of the corresponding tax return. 54 The payment obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement are our obligations and not obligations of Rosehill Operating, and we expect that the payments we will be required to make under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be substantial. Estimating the amount and timing of payments that may become due under the Tax Receivable Agreement is by its nature imprecise. For purposes of the Tax Receivable Agreement, cash savings in tax generally are calculated by comparing our actual tax liability (determined by using the actual applicable U.S. federal income tax rate and an assumed combined state and local income tax rate) to the amount we would have been required to pay had we not been able to utilize any of the tax benefits subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, are dependent upon significant future events and assumptions, including the timing of the redemptions of Rosehill Operating Common Units, the price of our Class A Common Stock at the time of each redemption, the extent to which such redemptions are taxable transactions, the amount of Tema tax basis in its Rosehill Operating Common Units at the time of the relevant redemption, the depreciation and amortization periods that apply to the increase in tax basis, the amount and timing of taxable income we generate in the future, the U.S. federal income tax rates then applicable, and the portion of our payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement that constitute imputed interest or give rise to depreciable or amortizable tax basis. The payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement will not be conditi1d upon a holder of rights under the Tax Receivable Agreement having a continued ownership interest in us or Rosehill Operating. In certain cases, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement may be accelerated and or significantly exceed the actual benefits, if any, we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. If we elect to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement early within thirty (30) days of certain mergers or other changes of control or it is terminated early due to our breach of a material obligation thereunder, our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement would accelerate and we would be required to make a substantial immediate lump sum payment. This payment would equal the present value of the hypothetical future payments that could be required to be paid under the Tax Receivable Agreement (determined by applying a discount rate equal to the 1 year London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) plus 150 basis points). The calculation of hypothetical future payments will be based upon certain assumptions and deemed events set forth in the Tax Receivable Agreement, including (i) the assumption that we have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the tax benefits covered by the Tax Receivable Agreement and (ii) the assumption that any Rosehill Operating Common Units (other than those held by us) outstanding on the termination date are deemed to be exchanged on the termination date. Any early termination payment may be made significantly in advance of the actual realization, if any, of the future tax benefits to which the termination payment relates. Upon an early termination of the Tax Receivable Agreement, we could be required to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement that exceed our actual cash tax savings, if any, in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. In these situations, our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, or other forms of business combinations or changes of control. For example, if the Tax Receivable Agreement had been terminated at December 31, 2018, the estimated termination payments would, in the aggregate, have been approximately $719 million (calculated using a discount rate equal to 1 year LIBOR plus 150 basis points, applied against an undiscounted liability of $1013 million ). The foregoing number is merely an estimate and the actual payments could differ materially. There can be no assurance that we will be able to finance our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement. In the event that we elect to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement early within thirty (30) days of certain mergers or other changes of control, the consideration payable to holders of our Class A Common Stock could be substantially reduced. If we elect to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement early within thirty (30) days of certain mergers or other changes of control, we would be obligated to make a substantial, immediate lump sum payment, and such payment may be significantly in advance of, and may materially exceed, the actual realization, if any, of the future tax benefits to which the payment relates. As a result of this payment obligation, holders of our Class A Common Stock could receive substantially less consideration in connection with a change of control transaction than they would receive in the absence of such obligation. Further, our payment obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement will not be conditi1d upon Tema having a continued interest in us or Rosehill Operating. Accordingly, Tema interests may conflict with those of the holders of our Class A Common Stock. Please read In certain cases, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement may be accelerated and or significantly exceed the actual benefits, if any, we realize, in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement and Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions Agreements Relating to the Transaction Tax Receivable Agreement. 55 We will not be reimbursed for any payments made under the Tax Receivable Agreement in the event that any tax benefits are subsequently disallowed. Payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be based on the tax reporting positions that we will determine. Tema will not reimburse us for any payments previously made under the Tax Receivable Agreement if any tax benefits that have given rise to payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement are subsequently disallowed, except that excess payments made to Tema will be netted against payments that would otherwise be made to Tema, if any, after our determination of such excess. As a result, in such circumstances, we could make payments that are greater than our actual cash tax savings, if any, and may not be able to recoup those payments, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In certain circumstances, Rosehill Operating will be required to make tax distributions and tax advances to its unitholders, and the tax distributions and tax advances that Rosehill Operating will be required to make may be substantial. Pursuant to the Second Amended LLC Agreement, Rosehill Operating will make generally pro rata cash distributions, or tax distributions, to its unitholders, including us, in an amount sufficient to allow us to pay our taxes and to allow us to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement with Tema. In addition to these pro rata distributions, certain Rosehill Operating unitholders will be entitled to receive tax advances in an amount sufficient to allow each such unitholder to pay its respective taxes on such holder allocable share of Rosehill Operating taxable income. Any such tax advance will be calculated after taking into account certain other distributions or payments received by the unitholders from Rosehill Operating. Under the applicable tax rules, Rosehill Operating is required to allocate net taxable income disproportionately to its members in certain circumstances. Tax advances will be determined based on an assumed individual tax rate and will be repaid upon exercise of Tema redemption right or the call right, as applicable. Funds used by Rosehill Operating to satisfy its tax distribution and tax advance obligations will not be available for reinvestment in our business. Moreover, the tax distributions and tax advances Rosehill Operating will be required to make may be substantial, and because of the disproportionate allocation of net taxable income, may exceed the actual tax liability for some of the existing owners of Rosehill Operating. The JOBS Act permits emerging growth companies like us to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company as defined in the JOBS Act. As such, we take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, including (i) the exemption from the auditor attestation requirements with respect to internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, (ii) the exemptions from say on pay, say on frequency and say on golden parachute voting requirements and (iii) reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. As a result, our stockholders may not have access to certain information they deem important. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the date of our initial public offering, (ii) the last day in the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $107 billion (as adjusted for inflation pursuant to SEC rules from time to time), (iii) the date in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our Class A Common Stock that is held by non affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our prior second fiscal quarter, or (iv) the date on which we have issued more than $10 billion in non convertible debt during the prior 3 year period. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the exemption from complying with new or revised accounting standards provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act as long as we are an emerging growth company. An emerging growth company can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non emerging growth companies, but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period, which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make comparison of our financial statements with another public company which is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accountant standards used. 56 We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A Common Stock less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A Common Stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A Common Stock and our stock price may be more volatile. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS N1 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES
