CIK: 1670349
Company Name: U S WELL SERVICES INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-03-14
Accession Number: 0001564590-19-007769


Item 1 Business Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety Regulations . Furthermore, increasing attention to the risks of climate change has resulted in an increased possibility of lawsuits or investigations brought by public and private entities against oil and natural gas companies in connection with their GHGs emissions. Should we be targeted by any such litigation or investigations, we may incur liability, which, to the extent that societal pressures or political or other factors are involved, could be imposed without regard to the causation of or contribution to the asserted damage, or to other mitigating factors. The ultimate impact of GHGs emissions related agreements, legislation and measures on our company financial performance is highly uncertain because we are unable to predict with certainty, for a multitude of individual jurisdictions, the outcome of political decision making processes and the variables and tradeoffs that inevitably occur in connection with such processes. If we are unable to fully protect our intellectual property rights, we may suffer a loss in our competitive advantage or market share. We have been granted or have received notice of allowance for 18 patents, and have an additional 75 patents pending. If we are not able to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets or fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights we have now or acquire in the future, our competitive advantage would be diminished. Additionally, competitors may be able to replicate our technology or services protected by our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that any patents we may obtain in the future would provide us with any significant commercial benefit or would allow us to prevent our competitors from employing comparable technologies or processes. We may be adversely affected by disputes regarding intellectual property rights of third parties. Third parties from time to time may initiate litigation against us by asserting that the conduct of our business infringes, misappropriates or otherwise violates intellectual property rights. If any third parties bring a claim of intellectual property infringement against us, we may be subject to costly and time consuming litigation, diverting the attention of management and our employees. We may not prevail in any such legal proceedings related to such claims, and our products and services may be found to infringe, impair, misappropriate, dilute or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others. If we are unsuccessful in defending such claims, we could be required to pay substantial damages and or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or technology. Any legal proceeding concerning intellectual property could be protracted and costly regardless of the merits of any claim and is inherently unpredictable and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, regardless of its outcome. If we were to discover that our technologies or products infringe valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially re engineer our products in order to avoid infringement. We may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re engineer our products successfully. If our inability to obtain required licenses for our technologies or products prevents us from selling our products, it could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to interruptions or failures in our information technology systems. We rely on sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure to support our business, including process control technology. Any of these systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, usage errors by employees, computer viruses, cyberattacks or other security breaches, or similar events. The failure of any of our information technology systems may cause disruptions in our operations, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. We are subject to cyber security risks. A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and or financial loss. The oil and natural gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain processing activities. For example, we depend on digital technologies to perform many of our services and to process and record financial and operating data. At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks, 20 have increased . The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of cyber security threats. Our technologies, systems and ne2rks, and those of our vendors, suppliers and other business partners, may become the t arget of cyberattacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. In the past, we have experienced data security breaches resulting from unauthorized access to our systems, which to date have not had a material impact on our operations; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future. Our systems and insurance coverage for protecting against cyber security risks may not be sufficient. As cyber incidents continue to evolve, we will likely be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents. Our insurance coverage for cyberattacks may not be sufficient to cover all the losses we may experien ce as a result of such cyberattacks. Changes in transportation regulations may increase our costs and negatively impact our results of operations. We are subject to various transportation regulations, including as a motor carrier by the U.S. Department of Transportation and by various federal and state agencies, whose regulations include certain permit requirements of highway and safety authorities. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers over our trucking operations, generally governing such matters as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, equipment testing, driver requirements and specifications and insurance requirements. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may impact our operations, such as changes in fuel emissions limits, hours of service regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive or work in any specific period and limits on vehicle weight and size. As the federal government continues to develop and propose regulations relating to fuel quality, engine efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions, we may experience an increase in costs related to truck purchases and maintenance, impairment of equipment productivity, a decrease in the residual value of vehicles, unpredictable fluctuations in fuel prices and an increase in operating expenses. Increased truck traffic may contribute to deteriorating road conditions in some areas where our operations are performed. Our operations, including routing and weight restrictions, could be affected by road construction, road repairs, detours and state and local regulations and ordinances restricting access to certain routes or times on specific roadways. Proposals to increase federal, state or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, are also made from time to time, and any such increase would increase our operating costs. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any legislative or regulatory changes or municipal ordinances applicable to our logistics operations will be enacted and to what extent any such legislation or regulations could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations. We may be unable to employ a sufficient number of key employees, technical personnel and other skilled or qualified workers. In addition, the absence or loss of certain key employees could adversely affect our business. The delivery of our services requires personnel with specialized skills and experience who can perform physically demanding work. Additionally, our ability to successfully operate our business is dependent upon the efforts of certain key personnel, including our senior management. The demand for skilled workers in our areas of operations can be high, the supply may be limited, and we may be unable to relocate our employees from areas of lower utilization to areas of higher demand. If we are unable to retain or meet growing demand for skilled technical personnel, our operating results and our ability to execute our growth strategies may be adversely affected. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. Further, a significant decrease in the wages paid by us or our competitors as a result of reduced industry demand could result in a reduction of the available skilled labor force, and there is no assurance that the availability of skilled labor will improve following a subsequent increase in demand for our services or an increase in wage rates. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions, and require full compliance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 and other laws concerning immigration and the hiring of legally documented workers. In some cases, it may be necessary to obtain a required work authorization from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security or similar government agency prior to a foreign national working as an employee for us. There may be costs that arise in the course of our efforts to comply with various current or future labor and employment related 21 regulations. In addition, many key responsibilities within our business have been assigned to a small number of employees. The unexpected loss or unavailability of key members of management or technical personnel, in particular 1 or more members of our executive team, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief administrative officer and chief operating officer, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. As a result, we are not insured against any losses resulting from the death of our key employees. Anti indemnity provisions enacted by many states may restrict or prohibit a party indemnification of us. We typically enter into agreements with our customers governing the provision of our services, which usually include certain indemnification provisions for losses resulting from operations. Such agreements may require each party to indemnify the other against certain claims regardless of the negligence or other fault of the indemnified party; however, many states place limitations on contractual indemnity agreements, particularly agreements that indemnify a party against the consequences of its own negligence. Furthermore, certain states, including Texas, have enacted statutes generally referred to as oilfield anti indemnity acts expressly prohibiting certain indemnity agreements contained in or related to oilfield services agreements. Such anti indemnity acts may restrict or void a party indemnification of us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti terrorist efforts and other armed conflicts involving the United States could adversely affect the U.S. and global economies and could prevent us from meeting financial and other obligations. We could experience loss of business, delays or defaults in payments from payors or disruptions of fuel supplies and markets if wells, operations sites or other related facilities are direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror or war. Such activities could reduce the overall demand for oil and gas, which, in turn, could also reduce the demand for our products and services. Terrorist activities and the threat of potential terrorist activities and any resulting economic downturn could adversely affect our results of operations, impair our ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely impact our ability to realize certain business strategies. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers, many of whose operations are concentrated solely in the domestic E&P industry which, as described above, is subject to volatility and, therefore, credit risk. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully reduce customer credit risk. If we are unable to adequately assess the credi2rthiness of existing or future customers or unanticipated deterioration in their credi2rthiness, any resulting increase in nonpayment or nonperformance by them and our inability to re market or otherwise use our equipment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations. We rely on a limited number of third parties for sand, proppant and chemicals, and delays in deliveries of such materials, increases in the cost of such materials or our contractual obligations to pay for materials that we ultimately do not require could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have established relationships with a limited number of suppliers of our raw materials (such as sand, proppant and chemicals). Should any of our current suppliers be unable to provide the necessary materials or otherwise fail to deliver the materials in a timely manner and in the quantities required, any resulting delays in the provision of services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, increasing and volatile costs of such materials may negatively impact demand for our services or the profitability of our business operations. In the past, our industry faced sporadic proppant shortages associated with hydraulic fracturing operations requiring work stoppages, which adversely impacted the operating results of several competitors. We may not be able to mitigate any future shortages of materials, including proppant. Additionally, we have purchase commitments with certain vendors to supply a majority 22 of the proppant used in our operations. Some of these agreements are take or pay agreements with minimum purchase obligations. If demand for our services decreases , demand for the raw materials we supply as part of these services will also decrease. Additionally, some of our customers have bought, and in the future may buy, proppant directly from vendors, reducing ou r need for proppant. If demand decreases enough, or our customers buy proppant directly from vendors, we could have contractual minimum commitments that exceed the required amount of goods we need to supply to our customers. To the extent our contracts req uire us to purchase more materials, including proppant, than we ultimately require, we may be forced to pay for the excess amount under take or pay contract provisions. 23 Delays or restrictions in obtaining permits by us for our operations or by our cus tomers for their operations could impair our business. Our operations and the operations of our oil and natural gas producing customers require permits from 1 or more governmental agencies in order to perform drilling and completion activities, secure water rights, or engage in other regulated activities. Such permits are typically issued by state agencies, but federal and local governmental permits may also be required. The requirements for such permits vary depending on the location where such regulated activities will be conducted. As with all governmental permitting processes, there is a degree of uncertainty as to whether a permit will be granted, the time it will take for a permit to be issued, and the conditions that may be imposed in connection with the granting of the permit. Therefore, our customers operations in certain areas of the United States may be interrupted or suspended for varying lengths of time, causing a loss of revenue to us and adversely affecting our results of operations in support of those customers. Oil and natural gas companies operations using hydraulic fracturing are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on the ability to obtain water for exploration and production activities and the disposal of flowback and produced water may impact their operations and have a corresponding adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Water is an essential comp1nt of shale oil and natural gas production during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Our oil and natural gas producing customers access to water to be used in these processes may be adversely affected due to reasons such as periods of extended drought, private, third party competition for water in localized areas or the implementation of local or state governmental programs to monitor or restrict the beneficial use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to assure adequate local water supplies. The occurrence of these or similar developments may result in limitations being placed on allocations of water due to needs by third party businesses with more senior contractual or permitting rights to the water. Our customers inability to locate or contractually acquire and sustain the receipt of sufficient amounts of water could adversely impact their exploration and production operations and have a corresponding adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental regulations and other regulatory initiatives could include increased restrictions on our producing customers ability to dispose of flowback and produced water generated in hydraulic fracturing or other fluids resulting from exploration and production activities. For more information about regulations affecting the availability of water for our customers, please see Item 1 Business Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety Regulations. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells and any inability to secure transportation and access to disposal wells with sufficient capacity to accept all of our flowback and produced water on economic terms may increase our customers operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our customers operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted. In addition, the legal requirements related to the disposal of produced water into a non producing geologic formation by means of underground injection wells are subject to change based on concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such disposal activities. 1 such concern arises from recent seismic events near underground disposal wells that are used for the disposal by injection of produced water resulting from oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids activities. In response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. Among other things, these rules require companies seeking permits for disposal wells to provide seismic activity data in permit applications, provide for more frequent monitoring and reporting for certain wells and allow the state to modify, suspend or terminate permits on grounds that a disposal well is likely to be, or determined to be, causing seismic activity. States may issue orders to temporarily shut down or to curtail the injection depth of existing wells in the vicinity of seismic events. Another consequence of seismic events may be lawsuits alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells by us. Increased regulation and attention given to induced seismicity could also lead to greater opposition, including litigation to limit or prohibit oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids activities utilizing injection wells for produced water disposal. 24 Any 1 or more of these developments may result in us or our vendors having to limit disposal well volumes, disposal rates and pressures or locations, or require us or our vendors to shut down or curtail the injection into disposal wells, which events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to expand our operations relies in part on our ability to market our Clean Fleets technology, and advancements in well service technologies, including those involving hydraulic fracturing, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The hydraulic fracturing industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent or other intellectual property protections. For example, we use our patented Clean Fleets technology as a competitive advantage in the markets we serve. As competitors and others use or develop new or comparable technologies in the future, we may lose market share or be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we may face competitive pressure to develop, implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we do, which may allow them to gain technological advantages or implement new technologies before we can. Additionally, we may be unable to implement new technologies or services at all, on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. New technology could also make it easier for our customers to vertically integrate their operations, thereby reducing or eliminating the need for our services. Limits on our ability to effectively use or implement new technologies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may record losses or impairment charges related to idle assets or assets that we sell. Prolonged periods of low utilization, changes in technology or the sale of assets below their carrying value may cause us to experience losses. These events could result in the recognition of impairment charges that negatively impact our financial results. Significant impairment charges as a result of a decline in market conditions or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. Risks Related to Our Securities Our only significant assets are the ownership of a majority interest in USWS Holdings, and such ownership may not be sufficient to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. We have no direct operations or significant assets other than the ownership of a majority (77.9%) interest in USWS Holdings. We depend on USWS Holdings and its subsidiaries, including U.S. Well Services, LLC, for distributions, loans and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. Subject to certain restrictions, USWS Holdings generally will be required to (i) make pro rata distributions to its members, including us, in an amount at least sufficient to enable us to pay our taxes and (ii) reimburse us for certain corporate and other overhead expenses. However, legal and contractual restrictions in agreements governing indebtedness of USWS Holdings and its subsidiaries, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of USWS Holdings and its subsidiaries may limit our ability to obtain cash from USWS Holdings. The earnings from, or other available assets of, USWS Holdings and its subsidiaries, may not be sufficient to enable us to satisfy our financial obligations. USWS Holdings is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, will not be subject to any entity level U.S. federal income tax. Instead, taxable income will be allocated to holders of USWS Units, including us. As a result, we generally will incur taxes on our allocable share of any net taxable income generated by USWS Holdings. Under the terms of the Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of USWS Holdings, dated November 9, 2018, among MPAC and certain owners of common units in USWS Holdings (the Non Blocker USWS Members ) and (the A&R USWS Holdings LLC Agreement ), USWS Holdings is obligated to make tax distributions to holders of the USWS Units, including us, except to the extent such distributions would render USWS Holdings insolvent or are otherwise prohibited by law or the terms of any future financing agreement of USWS Holdings or its subsidiaries. In addition to our tax obligations, we also incur expenses related to our operations and our interests in USWS Holdings, including costs and expenses of being a publicly traded company, all of which could be significant. To the extent that we require funds and USWS Holdings or its subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of their financing arrangements, or are otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to pay our income taxes when due. 25 There ca n be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the continued listing standards of Nasdaq. Our Class A common stock and warrants are currently listed on Nasdaq. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet Nasdaq listing requirements with respect to our Class A common stock and warrants. If our Class A common stock or warrants are delisted, there could be limited availability of market quotations for the Class A common stock and warrants and reduced liquidity in trading for these securities. Although we anticipate that these securities would be eligible for quotation and trading on the over the counter market, there can be no assurance that trading would be commenced or maintained on the over the counter market. In addition, if we failed to meet Nasdaq listing requirements with respect to our Class A common stock, in addition to reduced liquidity, we and our stockholders could face significant material adverse consequences including a determination that our Class A common stock is a penny stock which will require brokers trading in our stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities; a limited amount of news and analyst coverage; and a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. The National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996, which is a federal statute, prevents or preempts the states from regulating the sale of certain securities, which are referred to as covered securities. Because our Class A common stock is listed on Nasdaq, it is a covered security. Although the states are preempted from regulating the sale of our Class A common stock, if we were no longer listed on Nasdaq, our Class A common stock would not be a covered security and we would be subject to regulation in each state in which we offer our Class A common stock. During 2018, the Company received a notice from the Staff of Listing Qualifications Department of Nasdaq stating that the Company was not in compliance with the minimum number of round lot holders of the Company Class A common stock and warrants. The Company subsequently received confirmation from Nasdaq in March 2019 that it is in compliance with the minimum round lot holder rules for its Class A common stock and warrants. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, increases costs and distracts management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost effective manner. As a public company, we are subject to laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions, related regulations of the SEC and the requirements of Nasdaq. We rely on a small number of key personnel to manage compliance with these regulations, and compliance with such regulations causes additional costs to our operations and diverts management attention from implementing our growth strategy, which could prevent us from improving our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal control over financial reporting, accounting systems disclosure controls and procedures, auditing functions and other procedures related to public reporting in order to meet our reporting obligations as a public company. We are an emerging growth company and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will result in significant savings. We are an emerging growth company as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (JOBS Act). For as long as we remain an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years or until such earlier time that we have more than $107 billion in annual revenues, have more than $700 million in market value of our common shares held by non affiliates, or issue more than $10 billion of non convertible debt over a 3 year period. Further, there is no guarantee that the exemptions available to us under the JOBS Act will result in significant savings. To the extent we choose not to use exemptions from various reporting requirements under the JOBS Act, we may incur additional compliance costs, which may impact earnings and result in further diversion of management time and attention from 26 revenue generating activities. An active, liquid and orderly trading market for our securities may not be maintained, which could adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. An active, liquid and orderly trading market for our securities may not be maintained. Active, liquid and orderly trading markets usually result in less price volatility and more efficiency in carrying out investors purchase and sale orders. The market price of our securities could vary significantly as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. In the event of a drop in the market price of our securities, you could lose a substantial part or all of your investment in our securities. The following factors could affect the price of our securities the public reaction to the Transaction; our ability to realize the expected benefits of the Transaction; quarterly variations in our financial and operating results; the public reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; strategic actions by our competitors; the failure of securities or industry analysts to cover our securities or publish research or reports about us, our business, or our market; changes in revenue or earnings estimates, or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage, by equity research analysts; speculation in the press or investment community; sales of our securities by us or our stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur; the volume of our securities available for public sale; changes in accounting principles, policies, guidance, interpretations or standards; additions or departures of key management personnel; actions by our stockholders; general market conditions, including fluctuations in commodity prices; domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; and the realization of any risks described under this Risk Factors section. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our securities. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company securities. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management attention and resources and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 27 Future sales or the availability for sale of substantial am ounts of our Class A common stock , or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities . Our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes us to issue 400,000,000 shares of Class A common stock , of which 49,254,760 shares were outstanding as of March 11, 2019. In addition, as of March 11, 2019, warrants to purchase up to 24,000,000 shares of our Class A common stock were outstanding and immediately exercisable. A large percentage of our shares of common stock are held by a relatively small number of investors. We entered into a registration rights agreement (the Registration Rights Agreement ) with certain of those investors in connection with the Transaction pursuant to which we have filed a registration statement with the SEC to facilitate potential future sales of such shares by them. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public markets, or even the perception that these sales might occur, could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. We may issue shares of our Class A common stock or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our Class A common stock , or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be substantial. We may also grant registration rights covering those shares of our Class A common stock or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our Class A common stock will have on the price at which our Class A common stock trades or the size of future issuances of our Class A common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances will have on the market price of our Class A common stock . Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock , or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock Certain of our principal stockholders have significant influence over us. A large percentage of our shares of Class A common stock are held by a relatively small number of investors whose interests may conflict. Consequently, these holders (each of whom we refer to as a principal stockholder ) may have significant influence over all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and the size of our Board, any amendment to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or the approval of any merger or other significant corporate transaction, including a sale of substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership and the rights of our principal stockholders will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, actions may be taken that you may not view as beneficial. Furthermore, conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us, on the 1 hand, and our principal stockholders and their respective affiliates, including portfolio companies, on the other hand, concerning among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities. Several of our principal stockholders are private equity firms or investment funds in the business of making investments in entities in a variety of industries. As a result, our principal stockholders existing and future portfolio companies may compete with us for investment or business opportunities. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation (the Second Amended and Restated Charter ) provides that our directors and officers, including any of the foregoing who were designated by our principal stockholders, do not have any obligation to offer to us any corporate opportunity of which he or she may become aware prior to offering such opportunities to other entities with which they may be affiliated, subject to certain limited exceptions. We may amend the terms of our warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders with the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding Public Warrants. As a result, the exercise price of warrants held by our warrant holders could be increased, the exercise period could be shortened and the number of shares of our Class A common stock purchasable upon exercise of a warrant could be decreased, all without approval by warrant holders. Our warrants were issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended 28 without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision but requires the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding Public Warrants to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the Public Warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding Public Warrants approve of such amendment. Although our ability to amend the terms of t he Public Warrants with the consent of at least 65% of the then outstanding Public Warrants is unlimited, examples of such amendments could be amendments to, among other things, increase the exercise price of the warrants, shorten the exercise period or de crease the number of shares of our Class A common stock purchasable upon exercise of a warrant. We may redeem unexpired Public Warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to warrant holders, thereby making their Public Warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding Public Warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption, provided that the last reported sales price of our Class A common stock equals or exceeds $24.00 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending on the third trading day prior to the date we send the notice of redemption to the warrant holders. If, and when, the Public Warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Redemption of the outstanding Public Warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise their Public Warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for them to do so, (ii) to sell their warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold their Public Warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of their Public Warrants. N1 of the Private Placement Warrants will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by Matlin & Partners Acquisition Sponsor, LLC ( M&P LLC ) or its permitted transferees. The exercise of our outstanding warrants could increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders. We issued 32,500,000 Public Warrants as part of our initial public offering and an aggregate of 15,500,000 Private Placement Warrants concurrently with our initial public offering. Each warrant is exercisable to purchase 1 half of 1 share of Class A common stock for $5.75 per half share, or $1150 per whole share, commencing on December 9, 2018. To the extent such warrants are exercised, additional shares of our Class A common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to the then existing holders of our Class A common stock and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. The Private Placement Warrants are identical to the Public Warrants, except that, so long as they are held by M&P LLC or its permitted transferees, (i) they will not be redeemable by us, (ii) they (including the Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of these warrants) may not, subject to certain limited exceptions, be transferred, assigned or sold by M&P LLC until December 9, 2018 and (iii) they may be exercised by M&P LLC or its permitted transferees for cash or on a cashless basis. Additionally, the Company has engaged, and in the future may engage, in transactions to exchange outstanding warrants for shares of Class A common stock. Any transactions to exchange warrants for shares of Class A common stock will result in dilution to the then existing holders of our Class A common stock and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales in the public market of substantial numbers of shares issued in connection with the exercise or exchange of warrants could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of the Class A common stock. Our Second Amended and Restated Charter authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of the Second Amended and Restated Charter and our bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to 29 and desirable by our stockholders, including a classified board of directors, so that only approximately 1 third of our directors are elected each year; removal of directors by our stockholders only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2 3% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class; adoption, amendment or repeal of our bylaws by our stockholders only by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2 3% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class; amendment or repeal of the supermajority voting provisions of the Second Amended and Restated Charter described above only by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2 3% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote on such amendment or repeal, in addition to any other vote of stockholders required by the Second Amended and Restated Charter or applicable law; inability of our stockholders to call special meetings or act by written consent; and advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to our board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders. The Second Amended and Restated Charter designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees. The Second Amended and Restated Charter provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware ( Court of Chancery ) will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or employees of ours arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Second Amended and Restated Charter or our bylaws or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each case except for such claims as to which (a) the Court of Chancery determines that it does not have personal jurisdiction over an indispensable party, (b) exclusive jurisdiction is vested in a court or forum other than the Court of Chancery or (c) the Court of Chancery does not have subject matter jurisdiction. Section 27 of the Exchange Act creates exclusive federal jurisdiction over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. As a result, the exclusive forum provision will not apply to actions arising under the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. However, Section 22 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), provides for concurrent federal and state court jurisdiction over actions under the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, subject to a limited exception for certain covered class actions as defined in Section 16 of the Securities Act and interpreted by the courts. Accordingly, we believe that the exclusive forum provision would apply to actions arising under the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder, except to the extent a particular action fell within the exception for covered class actions or 1 of the exceptions in the Second Amended and Restated Charter described above otherwise applied to such action, which could occur if, for example, the action also involved claims under the Exchange Act. In any case, our stockholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our Second Amended and Restated Charter described in the preceding paragraph. This exclusive forum provision may limit a stockholder ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Additionally, a court could determine that the exclusive forum provision is unenforceable. If a court were to find these provisions of our Second Amended and Restated Charter inapplicable 30 to, or unenf orceable in respect of, 1 or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Unanticipated changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We will be subject to income taxes in the United States, and our domestic tax liabilities will be subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expected timing and amount of the release of any tax valuation allowances; tax effects of stock based compensation; costs related to intercompany restructurings; changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof; and lower than anticipated future earnings in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated future earnings in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory tax rates. In addition, we may be subject to audits of our income, sales and other transaction taxes by U.S. federal and state authorities. Outcomes from these audits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. N1 Item 2 Properties
