CIK: 1680247
Company Name: PROPETRO HOLDING CORP 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-03-01
Accession Number: 0001680247-19-000016


Item 1 Business. Our Company We are a growth oriented, Midland, Texas based oilfield services company providing hydraulic fracturing and other complementary services to leading upstream oil and gas companies engaged in the exploration and production, or E&P, of North American unconventional oil and natural gas resources. Our operations are primarily focused in the Permian Basin, where we have cultivated longstanding customer relationships with some of the region most active and well capitalized E&P companies. The Permian Basin is widely regarded as the most prolific oil producing area in the United States, and we believe we are 1 of the leading providers of hydraulic fracturing services in the region by hydraulic horsepower, or HHP. During the year ended December 31, 2018 , we purchased and deployed four newbuild hydraulic fracturing units, bringing our total horse power to 905,000 HHP, or 20 deployed fleets. On December 31, 2018, we consummated the purchase of certain pressure pumping assets and real property from Pi1er Natural Resources USA, Inc. ( Pi1er ) and Pi1er Natural Resources Pumping Services, LLC ( Pi1er Pumping Services ). Prior to the purchase, the pressure pumping assets exclusively provided integrated pressure pumping services to Pi1er completion and production operations. The acquisition cost of the assets was comprised of $110.0 million of cash and 16.6 million shares of our common stock. In connection with the consummation of transaction, we became a strategic long term service provider to Pi1er, providing pressure pumping and related services for a term of up to 10 years. The pressure pumping assets acquired include eight hydraulic fracturing fleets with a total of 510,000 HHP, four coiled tubing units and an associated equipment maintenance facility. Through this acquisition, we expanded our existing presence in the Permian Basin, and increased our pumping capacity by 56%, to 28 hydraulic fracturing fleets with a total of 1,415,000 HHP, further strengthening our position as 1 of the largest pure play provider of integrated well completion services in the Permian Basin. Our modern hydraulic fracturing fleet has been designed to handle the most challenging Permian Basin operating conditions and the region increasingly high intensity well completions, which are characterized by longer horizontal wellbores, more frac stages per lateral and increasing amounts of proppant per well. In addition to our core hydraulic fracturing operations, we also offer a suite of complementary well completion and production services, including cementing, coiled tubing, flowback services and drilling. We believe these complementary services create operational efficiencies for our customers and allow us to capture a greater portion of their capital spending across the lifecycle of an unconventional well. Our primary business objective is to serve as a strategic long term partner to our customers. We achieve this objective by providing reliable, high quality services that are tailored to our customers needs and synchronized with their well development programs. This alignment assists our customers in optimizing the long term development of their unconventional resources. Over the past 3 years, we have leveraged our strong relationships in the Permian Basin to significantly grow our installed HHP capacity and organically build our cementing and coiled tubing lines of business. Consistent with past performance, we believe our substantial market presence will continue to yield a variety of actionable growth opportunities allowing us to expand both our hydraulic fracturing and complementary services going forward. To this end, we intend to continue to differentiate ourselves, consistent with our past practice, by opportunistically deploying new equipment on a long term dedicated basis. Our Services We conduct our business through five operating segments hydraulic fracturing (inclusive of acidizing), cementing, coil tubing, flowback and drilling. For reporting purposes, the hydraulic fracturing and cementing operating segments are aggregated into our 1 reportable segment pressure pumping. For additional financial information on our reportable segment, please see I Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 2 Pressure Pumping Hydraulic Fracturing We primarily provide hydraulic fracturing services to E&P companies in the Permian Basin. These services are intended to optimize hydrocarbon flow paths during the completion phase of horizontal shale wellbores. We have significant expertise in multi stage fracturing of horizontal oil producing wells in unconventional geological formations. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we continued to organically grow our hydraulic fracturing business to a total of 20 hydraulic fracturing fleets with an aggregate of 905,000 HHP. Following the consummation of our acquisition of pressure pumping assets from Pi1er Pressure Pumping Services, we increased our hydraulic fracturing business to a total 28 fleets, or 1,415,000 HHP. The fracturing process consists of pumping a fracturing fluid into a well at sufficient pressure to fracture the formation. Materials known as proppants, which in our business are comprised primarily of sand, are suspended in the fracturing fluid and are pumped into the fracture to prop it open. The fracturing fluid is designed to break, or loosen viscosity, and be forced out of the formation by its pressure, leaving the proppants suspended in the fractures created, thereby increasing the mobility of the hydrocarbons. As a result of the fracturing process, production rates are usually enhanced substantially, thus increasing the rate of return of hydrocarbons for the operator. We own and operate a fleet of mobile hydraulic fracturing units and other auxiliary equipment to perform fracturing services. We also refer to all of our fracturing units, other equipment and vehicles necessary to perform a fracturing job as a fleet and the personnel assigned to each fleet as a crew. Each hydraulic fracturing unit consist primarily of a high pressure hydraulic pump, diesel engine, transmission and various hoses, valves, tanks and other supporting equipment that are typically mounted to a flatbed trailer. We provide dedicated equipment, personnel and services that are tailored to meet each of our customer needs. Each fleet has a designated team of personnel, which allows us to provide responsive and customized services, such as project design, proppant and other consumables procurement, real time data provision and post completion analysis for each of our jobs. Many of our hydraulic fracturing fleets and associated personnel have continuously worked with the same customer for the past several years promoting deep relationships and a high degree of coordination and visibility into future customer activity levels. Furthermore, in light of our substantial market presence and historically high fleet utilization levels, we have established a variety of entrenched relationships with key equipment, sand and other downhole consumable suppliers, including over 30 sand suppliers utilized in 2018. These strategic relationships ensure ready access to equipment, parts and materials on a timely and economic basis and allow our dedicated procurement logistics team to ensure consistently safe and reliable operations. Cementing We provide cementing services for completion of new wells and remedial work on existing wells. Cementing services use pressure pumping equipment to deliver a slurry of liquid cement that is pumped down a well between the casing and the borehole. Cementing provides isolation between fluid z1s behind the casing to minimize potential damage to hydrocarbon bearing formations or the integrity of freshwater aquifers, and provides structural integrity for the casing by securing it to the earth. Cementing is also d1 when recompleting wells, where 1 z1 is plugged and another is opened. As of December 31, 2018 , we operated a total of 20 cementing units, with 13 units operating in the Permian Basin and 7 units operating in the Uinta Piceance Basin. We believe that our cementing segment provides an organic growth opportunity for us to expand our service offerings within our existing customer base. 3 Other Services Coiled Tubing Coiled tubing services involve injecting coiled tubing into wells to perform various completion well intervention operations. Coiled tubing is a flexible steel pipe with a diameter of typically less than 3 inches and manufactured in continuous lengths of thousands of feet. It is wound or coiled on a truck mounted reel for onshore applications. Due to its small diameter, coiled tubing can be inserted into existing production tubing and used to perform a variety of services to enhance the flow of oil or natural gas. The principal advantages of using coiled tubing include the ability to (i) continue production from the well without interruption, thus reducing the risk of formation damage, (ii) move continuous coiled tubing in and out of a well significantly faster than conventional pipe used with a workover rig, which must be jointed and unjointed, (iii) direct fluids into a wellbore with more precision, allowing for improved stimulation fluid placement, (iv) provide a source of energy to power a downhole motor or manipulate down hole tools and (v) enhance access to remote fields due to the smaller size and mobility. As of December 31, 2018 , we had 8 coiled tubing units of various sizes. We believe these units are well suited for the performance requirements of the unconventional resource markets we serve. Flowback Services Our flowback services consist of production testing, solids control, hydrostatic testing and torque services. Flowback involves the process of allowing fluids to flow from the well following a treatment, either in preparation for an impending phase of treatment or to return the well to production. Our flowback equipment consists of manifolds, accumulators, valves, flare stacks and other associated equipment that combine to form up to a total of five well testing spreads. We provide flowback services in the Permian Basin and mid continent markets. Surface Air Drilling We operated a surface air drilling operation in the Uinta Piceance Basin, which offered pre set surface air drilling services to target depths of approximately 4,000 feet in areas of fragile geology. Air drilling is a technique in which oil, natural gas, or geothermal wells are drilled by creating a pressure within the well that is lower than the reservoir pressure, which results in increased rates of penetration, reduced formation damage and reduced drilling costs. On August 31, 2018, we divested our surface air drilling operations, included in our "all other" operating segment category in our financial statements, in order to continue to position ourselves as a Permian Basin focused pressure pumping business because we believe the pressure pumping market in the Permian Basin offers more supportive long term growth fundamentals. The divestiture of our surface air drilling operations did not qualify for presentation and disclosure as discontinued operations, and accordingly we have recorded the resulting loss on disposal of our surface air drilling of $0.3 million, as part of our loss on disposal of asset in our statement of operations included in this annual report. The divestiture of our surface air drilling operations resulted in a reduction in the number of our current operating segments. The change in the number of our operating segments did not impact our reportable segment information reported in the financial statements included in this annual report. Competitive Strengths Our primary business objective is to serve as a strategic long term partner for our customers. We achieve this objective by providing reliable, high quality services that are tailored to our customers needs and synchronized with their well development programs. This alignment assists our customers in optimizing the long term development of their unconventional resources. We believe that the following competitive strengths differentiate us from our peers and uniquely position us to achieve our primary business objective. 4 Strong market position in the Permian Basin. We believe we are 1 of the largest hydraulic fracturing provider by HHP in the Permian Basin, which is the most prolific oil producing area in the United States. Our longstanding customer relationships and substantial Permian Basin market presence uniquely position us to continue growing in tandem with the basin ongoing development. The Permian Basin is a mature, liquids rich basin with well known geology and a large, exploitable resource base that delivers attractive E&P producer economics at or below current commodity prices. As a result of its significant size, coupled with the presence of multiple prospective geologic benches and other favorable characteristics, the Permian Basin has become widely recognized as the most attractive and economic oil resource in North America. Our operational focus has historically been in the Permian Basin Midland sub basin in support of our customers core operations. More recently, however, many of our customers have made sizeable acquisitions in the Delaware Basin, and we have expanded our services into the Delaware Basin to help develop their acreage. Further, we believe that we are uniquely positi1d to capture a large addressable growth opportunity as the basin develops. For the foreseeable future, we expect both the Midland Basin and the Delaware Basin to continue to command a disproportionate share of future North American E&P spending. Hydraulic fracturing is highly levered to increasing drilling activity and completion intensity levels. The combination of an expanding Permian Basin horizontal rig count and more complex well completions has a compounding effect on HHP demand growth. Horizontal drilling has become the default method for E&P operators to most economically extract unconventional resources, and the number of horizontal rigs has increased from 22% of the total Permian Basin rig count in December 2011 to approximately 91% of the Permian Basin rig count at December 31, 2018. As the horizontal rig count has grown, well completion intensity levels have also increased as a result of longer wellbore lateral lengths, more fracturing stages per foot of lateral and increasing amounts of proppant per stage. Furthermore, the ongoing improvement in drilling and completion efficiencies, driven by innovations such as multi well pads and zipper fracs, have further increased the demand for HHP. Taken together, these demand drivers have helped contribute to the full utilization of our fleet and have us well positi1d to capture future growth opportunities and enhanced pricing for our services. Deep relationships and operational alignment with high quality, Permian Basin focused customers. Our deep local roots, operational expertise and commitment to safe and reliable service have allowed us to cultivate longstanding customer relationships with the most active and well capitalized Permian Basin operators. Many of our current customers have worked with us since our inception and have integrated our fleet scheduling with their well development programs. This high degree of operational alignment and their continued support have allowed us to maintain relatively high utilization rates over time. As our customers increase activity levels, we expect to continue to leverage these strong relationships to keep our fleet fully utilized and selectively expand our platform in response to specific customer demand. Standardized fleet of modern, well maintained equipment. We have a large, homogenous fleet of modern equipment that is configured to handle the Permian Basin most complex, highest intensity, hydraulic fracturing jobs. We believe that our fleet design is a key advantage compared to many of our competitors who have fracturing units that are not optimized for Permian Basin conditions. Our fleet is largely standardized across units to facilitate efficient maintenance and repair, reducing equipment downtime and improving labor efficiency. Furthermore, our strong relationships with a variety of key suppliers and vendors provide us with the reliable access to the equipment necessary to support our continued organic growth strategy. Proven cross cycle financial performance. Over the past several years, we have maintained high cross cycle fleet utilization rates. Since September 2016 our fleet has consistently recorded a utilization rate of approximately 100%. Our consistent track record of steady growth, coupled with our ability to quickly deploy new HHP on a dedicated and fully utilized basis, has resulted in revenue growth across the industry cycles. We believe that we will be able to continue to grow faster than our competitors while preserving attractive EBITDA margins as a result of our differentiated service offerings and a robust backlog of demand for our services. Furthermore, we believe that our philosophy of maintaining modest 5 financial leverage and a healthy balance sheet has left us more conservatively capitalized than our peers. We expect that improving market fundamentals, our superior execution and our customer focused approach should result in strong financial performance. Seas1d management and operating team. We have a seas1d executive management team, with our senior members contributing more than 100 years of collective industry and financial experience. Members of our management team founded our business and seeded our company with a portion of our original investment capital. We believe their track record of successfully building premier oilfield service companies in the Permian Basin, as well as their deep roots and relationships throughout the West Texas community, provide a meaningful competitive advantage for our business. In addition, our management team has assembled a loyal group of highly motivated and talented managers and field personnel, and we have had minimal manager level turnover in our core service divisions over the past 3 years. We employ a balanced decision making structure that empowers managerial and field personnel to work directly with customers to develop solutions while leveraging senior management oversight. This collaborative approach fosters strong customer links at all levels of the organization and effectively institutionalizes customer relationships beyond the executive suite. Strategy Our strategy is to Capture an increasing share of rising demand for hydraulic fracturing services in the Permian Basin. We intend to continue to position ourselves as a Permian Basin focused hydraulic fracturing business, as we believe the Permian Basin hydraulic fracturing market offers supportive long term growth fundamentals. These fundamentals are characterized by increased demand for our HHP, driven by increasing drilling activity and well completion intensity levels. We are currently operating at approximately 100% utilization, and we believe we are strategically positi1d to deploy additional hydraulic fracturing equipment as our customers continue to develop their assets in the Midland Basin and Delaware Basin. Capitalize on improving efficiency gains. We intend to continue to work with our customers and vendors to improve our operational efficiencies and enhance our margins. We believe that improving our efficiencies will result in greater revenue and enhanced margins as fixed costs are spread over a broader revenue base. Cross sell our complementary services. In addition to our hydraulic fracturing services, we offer a broad range of complementary services in support of our customers development activities, including cementing, coiled tubing, flowback services and drilling. These complementary services create operational efficiencies for our customers, and allow us to capture a greater percentage of their capital spending across the lifecycle of an unconventional well. We believe that, as our customers increase spending levels, we are well positi1d to continue cross selling and growing our complementary service offerings. Maintain financial stability and flexibility to pursue growth opportunities. Consistent with our historical practices, we plan to continue to maintain a conservative balance sheet, which will allow us to better react to potential changes in industry and market conditions and opportunistically grow our business. In the near term, we intend to continue our past practice of aligning our growth capital expenditures with visible customer demand by strategically deploying new equipment on a long term, dedicated basis in response to inbound customer requests. We will also selectively evaluate potential strategic acquisitions that increase our scale and capabilities or diversify our operations. Our Customers Our customers consist primarily of oil and natural gas producers in North America. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 68.7% , 66.0% and 58.0% of our revenue, for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2018 , XTO Energy, Parsley Energy Operations, LLC and 6 CrownQuest Operating, LLC, accounted for 24.1%, 16.5%, and 122%, respectively, of total revenue. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2018 . Competition The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. To be successful, an oilfield services company must provide services that meet the specific needs of oil and natural gas exploration and production companies at competitive prices. Competitive factors impacting sales of our services are price, reputation, technical expertise, service and equipment quality, and health and safety standards. Although we believe our customers consider all of these factors, we believe price is a key factor in E&P companies criteria in choosing a service provider. While we seek to price our services competitively, we believe many of our customers elect to work with us based on our deep local roots, operational expertise, equipment ability to handle the most complex Permian Basin well completions, and commitment to safety and reliability. We provide our services primarily in the Permian Basin, and we compete against different companies in each service and product line we offer. Our competition includes many large and small oilfield service companies, including the largest integrated oilfield services companies. Our major competitors for hydraulic fracturing services include C&J Energy Services, Halliburton, Patterson UTI Energy Inc., RPC, Inc., Schlumberger, Keane Group, Inc., Liberty Oilfield Services, FTS International, Inc., Superior Energy Services and a number of locally oriented businesses. Seasonality Our results of operations have historically reflected seasonal tendencies, generally in the fourth quarter, relating to the conclusion of our customers annual capital expenditure budgets, the holidays and inclement winter weather during which we may experience declines in our operating results. Operating Risks and Insurance Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the oilfield services industry, such as accidents, blowouts, explosions, fires and spills and releases that can cause personal injury or loss of life, damage or destruction of property, equipment, natural resources and the environment and suspension of operations. In addition, claims for loss of oil and natural gas production and damage to formations can occur in the oilfield services industry. If a serious accident were to occur at a location where our equipment and services are being used, it could result in us being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. Our business involves the transportation of heavy equipment and materials, and as a result, we may also experience traffic accidents which may result in spills, property damage and personal injury. Despite our efforts to maintain safety standards, we from time to time have suffered accidents in the past and anticipate that we could experience accidents in the future. In addition to the property damage, personal injury and other losses from these accidents, the frequency and severity of these incidents affect our operating costs and insurability and our relationships with customers, employees, regulatory agencies and other parties. Any significant increase in the frequency or severity of these incidents, or the general level of compensation awards, could adversely affect the cost of, or our ability to obtain, workers compensation and other forms of insurance, and could have other material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain commercial general liability, workers compensation, business auto, commercial property, umbrella liability, excess liability, and directors and officers insurance policies providing coverages of risks and amounts that we believe to be customary in our industry. Further, we have pollution legal liability coverage for our business entities, which would cover, among other things, third party liability and costs of clean up relating to environmental contamination on our premises while our equipment is in transit and on our customers job site. With respect to our hydraulic fracturing operations, coverage would be available under our pollution legal liability policy 7 for any surface or subsurface environmental clean up and liability to third parties arising from any surface or subsurface contamination. We also have certain specific coverages for some of our businesses, including our hydraulic fracturing services. Although we maintain insurance coverage of types and amounts that we believe to be customary in the industry, we are not fully insured against all risks, either because insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs relative to perceived risk. Further, insurance rates have in the past been subject to wide fluctuation and changes in coverage could result in less coverage, increases in cost or higher deductibles and retentions. Liabilities for which we are not insured, or which exceed the policy limits of our applicable insurance, could have a material adverse effect on us. See Risk Factors for a description of certain risks associated with our insurance policies. Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety Regulations Our operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection, and occupational health and safety. Numerous federal, state and local governmental agencies issue regulations that often require difficult and costly compliance measures that could carry substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties and may result in injunctive obligations for non compliance. These laws and regulations may, for example, restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that can be released into the environment, limit or prohibit construction or drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, ecologically or seismically sensitive areas and other protected areas, or require action to prevent or remediate pollution from current or former operations. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or other waste products into the environment. Changes in environmental, health and safety laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly requirements could materially adversely affect our operations and financial position. We have not experienced any material adverse effect from compliance with these requirements, however, this trend may not continue in the future. Below is an overview of some of the more significant environmental, health and safety requirements with which we must comply. Our customers operations are subject to similar laws and regulations. Any material adverse effect of these laws and regulations on our customers operations and financial position may also have an indirect material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. Waste Handling. We handle, transport, store and dispose of wastes that are subject to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ) and comparable state laws and regulations, which affect our activities by imposing requirements regarding the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non hazardous wastes. With federal approval, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Although certain petroleum production wastes are exempt from regulation as hazardous wastes under RCRA, such wastes may constitute solid wastes that are subject to the less stringent requirements of non hazardous waste provisions. Administrative, civil and criminal penalties can be imposed for failure to comply with waste handling requirements. Moreover, the EPA or state or local governments may adopt more stringent requirements for the handling of non hazardous wastes or recategorize some non hazardous wastes as hazardous for future regulation. Indeed, legislation has been proposed from time to time in Congress to recategorize certain oil and natural gas exploration, development and production wastes as hazardous wastes. Several environmental organizations have also petiti1d the EPA to modify existing regulations to recategorize certain oil and natural gas exploration, development and production wastes as hazardous. Any such changes in these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures and operating expenses. Although we do not believe the current costs of managing our wastes, as presently classified, to be significant, any legislative or regulatory reclassification of oil and natural gas exploration and production wastes could increase our costs to manage and dispose of such wastes. 8 Remediation of Hazardous Substances. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ( CERCLA or Superfund ) and analogous state laws generally impose liability without regard to fault or legality of the original conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the current owner or operator of a contaminated facility, a former owner or operator of the facility at the time of contamination and those persons that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substance at the facility. Liability for the costs of removing or remediating previously disposed wastes or contamination, damages to natural resources, the costs of conducting certain health studies, amongst other things, is strict and joint and several. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. In the course of our operations, we use materials that, if released, would be subject to CERCLA and comparable state laws. Therefore, governmental agencies or third parties may seek to hold us responsible under CERCLA and comparable state statutes for all or part of the costs to clean up sites at which such hazardous substances have been released. 1 of our facilities in Midland, Texas is located within the boundaries of the West County Road 112 federal Superfund site, which site and the associated investigation and cleanup is being managed by EPA Region 6. The site soil and groundwater is contaminated with chromium and hexavalent chromium as a result of historic site operations unaffiliated with the Company and unassociated with the Company operations. Toxic tort claims also have been asserted as a result of this groundwater contamination against various unaffiliated parties. In 2013, in order to reduce the Company risk of incurring any future liabilities in connection with this site, the Company negotiated and obtained a bona fide prospective purchaser ( BFPP ) letter from EPA Region 6 in connection with a reorganization of the facility site ownership and lease. The BFPP letter generally acknowledges and provides that the Company is unaffiliated with any potentially responsible parties or known contamination that is the subject of the Superfund action, the Company agrees to comply with any future land use restrictions that may be imposed in connection with a site remedy (n1 have been imposed to date), and the Company agrees to cooperate with and provide access and assistance to EPA Region 6 in connection with the remediation. In exchange for these undertakings, the Company will not be subject to any CERCLA action by the EPA. In addition, the Company separately obtained a 10 year environmental pollution legal liability insurance policy, effective March 4, 2013, with an aggregate limit of $20 million to insure against potential third party claims and any known or unknown pre existing conditions at the site, including Superfund or toxic tort liabilities. Both prior to and since obtaining the BFPP letter and the insurance policy, no claims have been made or threatened against the Company or any of its affiliated persons or entities with regard to this Superfund site or any related liabilities, and the Company has not incurred any significant expenses in connection with this matter. NORM. In the course of our operations, some of our equipment may be exposed to naturally occurring radioactive materials ( NORM ) associated with oil and gas deposits and, accordingly may result in the generation of wastes and other materials containing NORM. NORM exhibiting levels of radiation in excess of established state standards are subject to special handling and disposal requirements, and any storage vessels, piping and work area affected by NORM may be subject to remediation or restoration requirements. Water Discharges. The Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Oil Pollution Act and analogous state laws and regulations impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the unauthorized discharge of pollutants, including produced waters and other gas and oil wastes, into regulated waters. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or the state. Also, spill prevention, control and countermeasure plan requirements require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of regulated waters. Air Emissions. The Clean Air Act ( CAA ) and comparable state laws and regulations, regulate emissions of various air pollutants through the issuance of permits and the imposition of other emissions control requirements. The EPA has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of air pollutants from specified sources. New facilities may be required to obtain permits before work can begin, and existing facilities may be required to obtain additional permits and incur capital costs in order to remain in compliance. These and other laws and regulations may increase the costs of compliance for some facilities where we operate. Obtaining or renewing permits also has the potential to delay the development of oil and natural gas projects. 9 Climate Change. The EPA has determined that greenhouse gases ( GHGs ) present an endangerment to public health and the environment because such gases contribute to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has adopted and implemented, and continues to adopt and implement, regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. The EPA also requires the annual reporting of GHG emissions from certain large sources of GHG emissions in the United States, including certain oil and gas production facilities. The U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and almost 1 half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and or regional GHG cap and trade programs. In December 2015, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France. The resulting Paris Agreement calls for the parties to undertake ambitious efforts to limit the average global temperature, and to conserve and enhance sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases. The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016. On June 1, 2017, President Trump announced that the United States planned to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and to seek negotiations either to reenter the Paris Agreement on different terms or establish a new framework agreement. The Paris Agreement provides for a four year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States adherence to the exit process is uncertain and or the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time. Moreover, climate change may cause more extreme weather conditions and increased volatility in seasonal temperatures. Extreme weather conditions can interfere with our operations and increase our costs, and damage resulting from extreme weather may not be fully insured. Endangered and Threatened Species. Environmental laws such as the Endangered Species Act ( ESA ) and analogous state laws may impact exploration, development and production activities in areas where we operate. The ESA provides broad protection for species of fish, wildlife and plants that are listed as threatened or endangered. Similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act and various state analogs. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service may identify previously unidentified endangered or threatened species or may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of a threatened or endangered species, which could cause us or our customers to incur additional costs or become subject to operating restrictions or operating bans in the affected areas. Regulation of Hydraulic Fracturing and Related Activities. Our hydraulic fracturing operations are a significant comp1nt of our business. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations, including shales. The process, which involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production, is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. However, federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, in May 2014, the EPA issued an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on the development of regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. Beginning in August 2012, the EPA issued a series of rules under the CAA that establish new emission control requirements for certain oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations and associated equipment. After several attempts to delay implementation, in September 2018 the EPA issued a proposal to amend and reduce such requirements. In March 2015, the Bureau of Land Management ( BLM ) finalized a rule governing hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. In June 2016, a federal district court judge in Wyoming struck down the final rule, finding that the BLM lacked congressional authority to promulgate the rule. However, in July 2017, the BLM initiated a rulemaking to rescind the final rule and reinstate the regulations that existed immediately before the published effective date of the rule. In light of the BLM proposed rulemaking, in September 2017, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit dismissed the appeal and remanded with directions to vacate the lower court opinion, leaving the final rule in place. The BLM initiated a rulemaking to rescind the final rule in December 2017. Further, legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing (except when diesel fuels are used) from the definition of underground injection and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process, have been proposed in recent sessions of Congress. Several 10 states and local jurisdictions in which we or our customers operate also have adopted or are considering adopting regulations that could restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, impose more stringent operating standards and or require the disclosure of the composition of hydraulic fracturing fluids. More recently, federal and state governments have begun investigating whether the disposal of produced water into underground injection wells has caused increased seismic activity in certain areas. In March 2016, the United States Geological Survey identified six states with the most significant hazards from induced seismicity, including Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico and Arkansas. The United States Geological Survey also noted the potential for induced seismicity in Ohio and Alabama. In response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, Oklahoma issued new rules for wastewater disposal wells in 2014 that imposed certain permitting and operating restrictions and reporting requirements on disposal wells in proximity to faults and also, from time to time, has developed and implemented plans directing certain wells where seismic incidents have occurred to restrict or suspend disposal well operations. In particular, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission released well completion seismicity guidelines in December 2016 for operators in the SCOOP and STACK that call for hydraulic fracturing operations to be suspended following earthquakes of certain magnitudes in the vicinity. In addition, in February 2017, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission Oil and Gas Conservation Division issued an order limiting future increases in the volume of oil and natural gas wastewater injected into the ground in an effort to reduce the number of earthquakes in the state. The Texas Railroad Commission adopted similar rules in 2014. In addition, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report regarding the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that water cycle activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under certain circumstances such as water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability, surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water, injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity, injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources, discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters, and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits. The results of these studies could lead federal and state governments and agencies to develop and implement additional regulations. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing and related activities (whether as a result of the EPA study results or resulting from other factors) could subject us and our customers to additional permitting and financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring, reporting and record keeping obligations, and plugging and abandonment requirements. New requirements could result in increased operational costs for us and our customers, and reduce the demand for our services. OSHA Matters. The Occupational Safety and Health Act ( OSHA ) and comparable state statutes regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard requires that information be maintained about hazardous materials used or produced in operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities and the public. Employees As of December 31, 2018 , we employed 1,579 people. N1 of our employees are represented by labor unions or subject to collective bargaining agreements. We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Our SEC filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SEC web site at www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any document we file at the SEC public reference room in Washington, D.C. Please call the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330 for further information on their public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on our website at www.propetroservices.com. Please note that information contained on our website, whether currently posted or posted in the future, is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10 K or the documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. This Annual Report on Form 10 K also contains summaries of the terms of certain agreements that we have entered into that are filed as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10 K or other reports that we have filed with the SEC. The descriptions contained in this Annual Report on Form 10 K of 11 those agreements do not purport to be complete and are subject to, and qualified in their entirety by reference to, the definitive agreements. You may request a copy of the agreements described herein at no cost by writing or telephoning us at the following address ProPetro Holding Corp., Attention Investor Relations, P.O. Box 873, Midland, Texas 79702, ph1 number (432) 688 0012 12 Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a description of significant factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward looking statement made in this Annual Report on Form 10 K and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all our potential risks or uncertainties. Due to these, and other factors, past performance should not be considered an indication of future performance. Our business and financial performance depends on the oil and natural gas industry and particularly on the level of capital spending and exploration and production activity within the United States and in the Permian Basin, and a decline in prices for oil and natural gas may have an adverse effect on our revenue, cash flows, profitability and growth. Demand for most of our services depends substantially on the level of capital expenditures in the Permian Basin by companies in the oil and natural gas industry. As a result, our operations are dependent on the levels of capital spending and activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production. A prolonged reduction in oil and gas prices would generally depress the level of oil and natural gas exploration, development, production, and well completion activity and would result in a corresponding decline in the demand for the hydraulic fracturing services that we provide. The significant decline in oil and natural gas prices during 2015 and 2016 caused a reduction in our customers spending and associated drilling and completion activities, which had an adverse effect on our revenue. If prices were to decline, similar declines in our customers spending would have an adverse effect on our revenue. In addition, a worsening of these conditions may result in a material adverse impact on certain of our customers liquidity and financial position resulting in further spending reductions, delays in the collection of amounts owing to us and similar impacts. Many factors over which we have no control affect the supply of, and demand for, and our customers willingness to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas, and therefore, influence prices for our services, including the domestic and foreign supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas; the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and natural gas; the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production; the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; the supply of and demand for drilling and hydraulic fracturing equipment; the expected decline rates of current production; the price and quantity of foreign imports; political and economic conditions in oil and natural gas producing countries and regions, including the United States, the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia; actions by the members of Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries with respect to oil production levels and announcements of potential changes in such levels; speculative trading in crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts; the level of consumer product demand; the discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves; contractions in the credit market; 13 the strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar; available pipeline and other transportation capacity; the levels of oil and natural gas storage; weather conditions and other natural disasters; domestic and foreign tax policy; domestic and foreign governmental approvals and regulatory requirements and conditions; the continued threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action, including military action in the Middle East; technical advances affecting energy consumption; the proximity and capacity of oil and natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the ability of oil and natural gas producers to raise equity capital and debt financing; merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers; and overall domestic and global economic conditions. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Such a decline would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. The cyclical nature of the oil and natural gas industry may cause our operating results to fluctuate. We derive our revenues from companies in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry, a historically cyclical industry with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and natural gas prices. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in operating results as a result of the reactions of our customers to changes in oil and natural gas prices. For example, prolonged low commodity prices experienced by the oil and natural gas industry during 2015 and 2016, combined with adverse changes in the capital and credit markets, caused many exploration and production companies to reduce their capital budgets and drilling activity. This resulted in a significant decline in demand for oilfield services and adversely impacted the prices oilfield services companies could charge for their services. In addition, a majority of the service revenue we earn is based upon a charge for a relatively short period of time (for example, a day, a week or a month) for the actual period of time the service is provided to our customers. By contracting services on a short term basis, we are exposed to the risks of a rapid reduction in market prices and utilization and resulting volatility in our revenues. The majority of our operations are located in the Permian Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in 1 major geographic area. Our operations are geographically concentrated in the Permian Basin. For the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , approximately 99%, 97% and 97%, respectively, of our revenues were attributable to our operations in the Permian Basin. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in the Permian Basin caused by significant governmental regulation, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, curtailment of production or interruption of the processing or transportation of oil and natural gas produced from the wells in these areas. In addition, the effect of fluctuations on supply and demand may become more pronounced within specific geographic oil and natural gas producing areas such as the Permian Basin, which may cause these 14 conditions to occur with greater frequency or magnify the effects of these conditions. Due to the concentrated nature of our operations, we could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our revenue than they might have on other companies that have more geographically diverse operations. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer credit risk. If we fail to adequately assess the credi2rthiness of existing or future customers or unanticipated deterioration in their credi2rthiness, any resulting increase in nonpayment or nonperformance by them and our inability to re market or otherwise use the production could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The depressed oil and natural gas prices in 2015 and 2016 negatively impacted the financial condition and liquidity of our customers, and future declines, sustained lower prices, or continued volatility could impact their ability to meet their financial obligations to us. We face significant competition that may cause us to lose market share. The oilfield services industry is highly competitive and has relatively few barriers to entry. The principal competitive factors impacting sales of our services are price, reputation and technical expertise, equipment and service quality and health and safety standards. The market is also fragmented and includes numerous small companies capable of competing effectively in our markets on a local basis, as well as several large companies that possess substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Our larger competitors greater resources could allow those competitors to compete more effectively than we can. For instance, our larger competitors may offer services at below market prices or bundle ancillary services at no additional cost to our customers. We compete with large national and multi national companies that have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical and other resources and greater name recognition than we do. Several of our competitors provide a broader array of services and have a stronger presence in more geographic markets. In addition, we compete with several smaller companies capable of competing effectively on a regional or local basis. Some jobs are awarded on a bid basis, which further increases competition based on price. Pricing is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. The competitive environment may be further intensified by mergers and acquisitions among oil and natural gas companies or other events that have the effect of reducing the number of available customers. As a result of competition, we may lose market share or be unable to maintain or increase prices for our present services or to acquire additional business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services and changes in customer requirements. The amount of equipment available may exceed demand, which could result in active price competition. In addition, depressed commodity prices lower demand for hydraulic fracturing equipment, which results in excess equipment and lower utilization rates. In addition, some exploration and production companies have commenced completing their wells using their own hydraulic fracturing equipment and personnel. Any increase in the development and utilization of in house fracturing capabilities by our customers could decrease the demand for our services and have a material adverse impact on our business. Furthermore, competition among oilfield service and equipment providers is affected by each provider reputation for safety and quality. We cannot assure that we will be able to maintain our competitive position. New technology may cause us to become less competitive. The oilfield services industry is subject to the introduction of new drilling and completion techniques and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent or other intellectual property protections. Although we believe our equipment and processes currently give us a competitive advantage, as competitors and others use or develop new or comparable technologies in the future, we may lose market share or be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we may face competitive pressure to develop, implement or acquire certain new 15 technologies at a substantial cost. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that may allow them to enjoy technological advantages and develop and implement new products on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. We cannot be certain that we will be able to develop and implement new technologies or products on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. Limits on our ability to develop, effectively use and implement new and emerging technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations. Our business depends upon our ability to obtain specialized equipment, parts and key raw materials, including frac sand and chemicals, from third party suppliers, and we may be vulnerable to delayed deliveries and future price increases. We purchase specialized equipment, parts and raw materials (including, for example, frac sand, chemicals and fluid ends) from third party suppliers and affiliates. At times during the business cycle, there is a high demand for hydraulic fracturing and other oil field services and extended lead times to obtain equipment and raw materials needed to provide these services. Should our current suppliers be unable or unwilling to provide the necessary equipment, parts or raw materials or otherwise fail to deliver the products timely and in the quantities required, any resulting delays in the provision of our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, future price increases for this type of equipment, parts and raw materials could negatively impact our ability to purchase new equipment, to update or expand our existing fleet, to timely repair equipment in our existing fleet or meet the current demands of our customers. Reliance upon a few large customers may adversely affect our revenue and operating results. The majority of our revenue is generated from our hydraulic fracturing services. Due to the large percentage of our revenue historically derived from our hydraulic fracturing services with recurring customers and the limited availability of our fracturing units, we have had some degree of customer concentration. Our top ten customers represented approximately 85.5% , 87.0% and 830% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. It is likely that we will depend on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue in the future. If a major customer fails to pay us, revenue would be impacted and our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Additionally, if we were to lose any material customer, we may not be able to redeploy our equipment at similar utilization or pricing levels and such loss could have an adverse effect on our business until the equipment is redeployed at similar utilization or pricing levels. Certain of our completion services, particularly our hydraulic fracturing services, are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on our or our customers ability to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Water is an essential comp1nt of unconventional shale oil and natural gas production during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Over the past several years, certain of the areas in which we and our customers operate have experienced extreme drought conditions and competition for water in such areas is growing. In addition, some state and local governmental authorities have begun to monitor or restrict the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to ensure adequate local water supply. For instance, some states require E&P companies to report certain information regarding the water they use for hydraulic fracturing and to monitor the quality of groundwater surrounding some wells stimulated by hydraulic fracturing. Generally, our water requirements are met by our customers from sources on or near their sites, but there is no assurance that our customers will be able to obtain a sufficient supply of water from sources in these areas. Our or our customers inability to obtain water from local sources or to effectively utilize flowback water could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We rely on a few key employees whose absence or loss could adversely affect our business. Many key responsibilities within our business have been assigned to a small number of employees. The loss of their services could adversely affect our business. In particular, the loss of the services of 1 or more members of our executive team, such as our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and General Counsel could disrupt our operations. We do not maintain key person life 16 insurance policies on any of our employees. As a result, we are not insured against any losses resulting from the death of our key employees. If we are unable to employ a sufficient number of skilled and qualified workers, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. The delivery of our services requires skilled and qualified workers with specialized skills and experience who can perform physically demanding work. As a result of the volatility of the oilfield services industry and the demanding nature of the work, workers may choose to pursue employment in fields that offer a more desirable work environment at wage rates that are competitive. Our ability to be productive and profitable will depend upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers is high, and the supply is limited. As a result, competition for experienced oilfield service personnel is intense, and we face significant challenges in competing for crews and management with large and well established competitors. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If either of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. Our operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, which could limit our ability to grow. The oilfield services industry is capital intensive. In conducting our business and operations, we have made, and expect to continue to make, substantial capital expenditures. Our total capital expenditures incurred were approximately $5926 million , $305.3 million and $46.0 million during the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 . We have historically financed capital expenditures primarily with funding from cash on hand, cash flow from operations, equipment and vendor financing and borrowings under our credit facilities. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and other capital resources to maintain planned or future levels of capital expenditures which, among other things, may prevent us from acquiring new equipment or properly maintaining our existing equipment. Further, any disruptions or continuing volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. This could put us at a competitive disadvantage or interfere with our growth plans. Further, our actual capital expenditures could exceed our capital expenditure budget. In the event our capital expenditure requirements at any time are greater than the amount we have available, we could be required to seek additional sources of capital, which may include debt financing, joint venture partnerships, sales of assets, offerings of debt or equity securities or other means. We may not be able to obtain any such alternative source of capital. We may be required to curtail or eliminate contemplated activities. If we can obtain alternative sources of capital, the terms of such alternative may not be favorable to us. In particular, the terms of any debt financing may include covenants that significantly restrict our operations. Our inability to grow as planned may reduce our chances of maintaining and improving profitability. Concerns over general economic, business or industry conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Concerns over global economic conditions, geopolitical issues, interest rates, inflation, the availability and cost of credit and the United States and foreign financial markets have contributed to increased economic uncertainty and diminished expectations for the global economy. These factors, combined with volatility in commodity prices, business and consumer confidence and unemployment rates, have precipitated an economic slowdown. Concerns about global economic growth have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad deteriorates, worldwide demand for petroleum products could diminish further, which could impact the price at which oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids can be sold, which could affect the ability of our customers to continue operations and adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 17 Our indebtedness and liquidity needs could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. Our existing and future indebtedness, whether incurred in connection with acquisitions, operations or otherwise, may adversely affect our operations and limit our growth, and we may have difficulty making debt service payments on such indebtedness as payments become due. Our level of indebtedness may affect our operations in several ways, including the following increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; the covenants that are contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness could limit our ability to borrow funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments; our debt covenants could also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry; any failure to comply with the financial or other debt covenants, including covenants that impose requirements to maintain certain financial ratios, could result in an event of default, which could result in some or all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable; our level of debt could impair our ability to obtain additional financing, or obtain additional financing on favorable terms, in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to meet our obligations under our indebtedness. Restrictions in our ABL Credit Facility (as defined herein) and any future financing agreements may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or capitalize on potential acquisitions and other business opportunities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our ABL Credit Facility restricts or limits our ability to grant liens; incur additional indebtedness; engage in a merger, consolidation or dissolution; enter into transactions with affiliates; sell or otherwise dispose of assets, businesses and operations; materially alter the character of our business as currently conducted; and make acquisitions, investments and capital expenditures. Furthermore, our ABL Credit Facility contains certain other operating and financial covenants. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the ABL Credit Facility may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our ABL Credit Facility, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable and our lenders commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Any subsequent replacement of our ABL Credit Facility or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. Please 18 read Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources Credit Facility and Other Financing Arrangements . We may become more leveraged and our indebtedness could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Our business is capital intensive and we may seek to raise debt capital to fund our business and growth strategy. Indebtedness could have negative consequences that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects, such as requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, potential strategic acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth, working capital or capital expenditures, or to fulfill debt service requirements or other cash requirements; increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market conditions; placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt; and to the extent that our debt is subject to floating interest rates, increasing our vulnerability to fluctuations in market interest rates. Our operations are subject to unforeseen interruptions and hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, for which we may not be adequately insured and which could cause us to lose customers and substantial revenue. Our operations are exposed to the risks inherent to our industry, such as equipment defects, vehicle accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, surface cratering, uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, pipe or pipeline failures, abnormally pressured formations and various environmental hazards, such as oil spills and releases of, and exposure to, hazardous substances. For example, our operations are subject to risks associated with hydraulic fracturing, including any mishandling, surface spillage or potential underground migration of fracturing fluids, including chemical additives. In addition, our operations are exposed to potential natural disasters, including blizzards, tornadoes, storms, floods, other adverse weather conditions and earthquakes. The occurrence of any of these events could result in substantial losses to us due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties or other damage resulting in curtailment or suspension of our operations. The cost of managing such risks may be significant. The frequency and severity of such incidents will affect operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. In particular, our customers may elect not to purchase our services if they view our environmental or safety record as unacceptable, which could cause us to lose customers and substantial revenues. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may suffer. Furthermore, we may be unable to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased and could escalate further. In addition, sub limits have been imposed for certain risks. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we are not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to secure additional insurance or bonding that might be required by new governmental regulations. This may cause us to restrict our operations, which might severely impact our financial position. Since hydraulic fracturing activities are part of our operations, they are covered by our insurance against claims made for bodily injury, property damage and clean up costs stemming from a sudden and accidental pollution event. 19 However, we may not have coverage if we are unaware of the pollution event and unable to report the occurrence to our insurance company within the time frame required under our insurance policy. In addition, these policies do not provide coverage for all liabilities, and the insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover claims that may arise, or we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable. A loss not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti terrorist efforts and other armed conflicts involving the United States could adversely affect the U.S. and global economies and could prevent us from meeting financial and other obligations. We could experience loss of business, delays or defaults in payments from payors or disruptions of fuel supplies and markets if pipelines, production facilities, processing plants, refineries or transportation facilities are direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror or war. Such activities could reduce the overall demand for oil and natural gas, which, in turn, could also reduce the demand for our services. Terrorist activities and the threat of potential terrorist activities and any resulting economic downturn could adversely affect our results of operations, impair our ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely impact our ability to realize certain business strategies. Increasing trucking regulations may increase our costs and negatively impact our results of operations. In connection with our business operations, including the transportation and relocation of our hydraulic fracturing equipment and shipment of frac sand, we operate trucks and other heavy equipment. As such, we operate as a motor carrier in providing certain of our services and therefore are subject to regulation by the United States Department of Transportation and by various state agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers, governing activities such as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, driver licensing, insurance requirements, financial reporting and review of certain mergers, consolidations and acquisitions, and transportation of hazardous materials (HAZMAT). Our trucking operations are subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may increase our costs. Some of these possible changes include increasingly stringent environmental regulations, changes in the hours of service regulations which govern the amount of time a driver may drive or work in any specific period, onboard black box recorder device requirements or limits on vehicle weight and size. Interstate motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the United States Department of Transportation. To a large degree, intrastate motor carrier operations are subject to state safety regulations that mirror federal regulations. Matters such as the weight and dimensions of equipment are also subject to federal and state regulations. From time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced, including proposals to increase federal, state, or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, which may increase our costs or adversely impact the recruitment of drivers. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any increase in such taxes applicable to us will be enacted. Certain motor vehicle operators require registration with the Department of Transportation. This registration requires an acceptable operating record. The Department of Transportation periodically conducts compliance reviews and may revoke registration privileges based on certain safety performance criteria that could result in a suspension of operations. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, and future compliance, claims, and liabilities relating to such matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The nature of our operations, including the handling, transporting and disposing of a variety of fluids and substances, including hydraulic fracturing fluids and other regulated substances, air emissions, and wastewater discharges exposes us to some risks of environmental liability, including the release of pollutants from oil and natural gas wells and associated equipment to the environment. The cost of compliance with these laws can be significant. Failure to properly handle, transport or dispose of these materials or otherwise conduct our operations in accordance with these and other environmental laws could expose us to substantial liability for administrative, civil and criminal penalties, cleanup and site restoration costs and liability associated with releases of such materials, damages to natural resources and other damages, as well as potentially impair our ability to conduct our operations. Such liability is commonly on a strict, joint and several liability basis, without regard to fault. Liability may be 20 imposed as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Neighboring landowners and other third parties may file claims against us for personal injury or property damage allegedly caused by the release of pollutants into the environment. Environmental laws and regulations have changed in the past, and they may change in the future and become more stringent. Current and future claims and liabilities may have a material adverse effect on us because of potential adverse outcomes, defense costs, diversion of management resources, unavailability of insurance coverage and other factors. The ultimate costs of these liabilities are difficult to determine and may exceed any reserves we may have established. If existing environmental requirements or enforcement policies change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for oil and natural gas. The EPA has determined that GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because such gases contribute to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has adopted and implemented, and continues to adopt and implement, regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act ( CAA ). The EPA also requires the annual reporting of GHG emissions from certain large sources of GHG emissions in the United States, including certain oil and gas production facilities. The EPA has also taken steps to limit methane emissions from oil and gas production facilities. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and almost 1 half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and or regional GHG cap and trade programs. And in December 2015, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France. The resulting Paris Agreement calls for the parties to undertake ambitious efforts to limit the average global temperature, and to conserve and enhance sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases. The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016. On June 1, 2017, President Trump announced that the United States planned to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and to seek negotiations either to reenter the Paris Agreement on different terms or establish a new framework agreement. The Paris Agreement provides for a four year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would resulting in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States adherence to the exit process is uncertain and or the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time. Moreover, climate change may cause more extreme weather conditions and increased volatility in seasonal temperatures. Extreme weather conditions can interfere with our operations and increase our costs, and damage resulting from extreme weather may not be fully insured. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Our hydraulic fracturing operations are a significant comp1nt of our business, and it is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly oil and natural gas, from tight formations, including shales. The process, which involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production, is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. However, federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, in May 2014, the EPA issued an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on the development of regulations under the Toxic Substances Control Act to require companies to disclose information regarding the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. Beginning in August 2012, the EPA issued a series of rules under the CAA that establish new emission control requirements for emissions of volatile organic compounds and methane from certain oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations and equipment. After several attempts to delay implementation, in September 2018 the EPA issued a proposal to amend and reduce such requirements. In March 2015, the Bureau of Land Management ( BLM ) finalized a rule governing hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. In June 2016, a federal district court judge in Wyoming struck down the final rule, finding that the BLM lacked congressional authority to promulgate the rule. The BLM appealed that ruling. In September 2017, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit dismissed the appeal and remanded with 21 directions to vacate the lower court opinion, leaving the final rule in place. The BLM initiated a rulemaking to rescind the final rule in December 2017. Further, legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing (except when diesel fuels are used) from the definition of underground injection and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process, have been proposed in recent sessions of Congress. Several states and local jurisdictions in which we or our customers operate also have adopted or are considering adopting regulations that could restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, impose more stringent operating standards and or require the disclosure of the composition of hydraulic fracturing fluids. More recently, federal and state governments have begun investigating whether the disposal of produced water into underground injection wells has caused increased seismic activity in certain areas. In March 2016, the United States Geological Survey identified six states with the most significant hazards from induced seismicity, including Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico and Arkansas. The United States Geological Survey also noted the potential for induced seismicity in Ohio and Alabama. In response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, Oklahoma issued new rules for wastewater disposal wells in 2014 that imposed certain permitting and operating restrictions and reporting requirements on disposal wells in proximity to faults and also, from time to time, has developed and implemented plans directing certain wells where seismic incidents have occurred to restrict or suspend disposal well operations. In particular, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission released well completion seismicity guidelines in December 2016 for operators in the SCOOP and STACK that call for hydraulic fracturing operations to be suspended following earthquakes of certain magnitudes in the vicinity. In addition, in February 2017, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission Oil and Gas Conservation Division issued an order limiting future increases in the volume of oil and natural gas wastewater injected into the ground in an effort to reduce the number of earthquakes in the state. The Texas Railroad Commission adopted similar rules in 2014. In addition, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report regarding the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that water cycle activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources under certain circumstances such as water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability, surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water, injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity, injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources, discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters, and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits. The results of these studies could lead federal and state governments and agencies to develop and implement additional regulations. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing and related activities (whether as a result of the EPA study results or resulting from other factors) could subject us and our customers to additional permitting and financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping obligations, and plugging and abandonment requirements. New requirements could result in increased operational costs for us and our customers, and reduce the demand for our services. Conservation measures, commercial development and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas and our services. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas, resulting in reduced demand for oilfield services. The impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas services and products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The commercial development of economically viable alternative energy sources and related products (such as electric vehicles, wind, solar, geothermal, tidal, fuel cells and biofuels) could have a similar effect. In addition, certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, including the allowance of percentage depletion for oil and natural gas properties, may be eliminated as a result of proposed legislation. Any future decreases in the rate at which oil and natural gas reserves are 22 discovered or developed, whether due to the passage of legislation, increased governmental regulation leading to limitations, or prohibitions on exploration and drilling activity, including hydraulic fracturing, or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, even in a stronger oil and natural gas price environment. We may be subject to claims for personal injury and property damage, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We operate with most of our customers under master service agreements, or MSAs. We endeavor to allocate potential liabilities and risks between the parties in the MSAs. Generally, under our MSAs, including those relating to our hydraulic fracturing services, we assume responsibility for, including control and removal of, pollution or contamination which originates above surface and originates from our equipment or services. Our customer assumes responsibility for, including control and removal of, all other pollution or contamination which may occur during operations, including that which may result from seepage or any other uncontrolled flow of drilling fluids. We may have liability in such cases if we are negligent or commit willful acts. Generally, our customers also agree to indemnify us against claims arising from their employees personal injury or death to the extent that, in the case of our hydraulic fracturing operations, their employees are injured or their properties are damaged by such operations, unless resulting from our gross negligence or willful misconduct. Similarly, we generally agree to indemnify our customers for liabilities arising from personal injury to or death of any of our employees, unless resulting from gross negligence or willful misconduct of the customer. In addition, our customers generally agree to indemnify us for loss or destruction of customer owned property or equipment and in turn, we agree to indemnify our customers for loss or destruction of property or equipment we own. Losses due to catastrophic events, such as blowouts, are generally the responsibility of the customer. However, despite this general allocation of risk, we might not succeed in enforcing such contractual allocation, might incur an unforeseen liability falling outside the scope of such allocation or may be required to enter into an MSA with terms that vary from the above allocations of risk. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are being used may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. As a result, we may incur substantial losses which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. We are subject to cyber security risks. A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and or financial loss. The oil and natural gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain processing activities. For example, we depend on digital technologies to perform many of our services and process and record operational and accounting data. At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, have increased. The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of cyber security threats. Our technologies, systems and ne2rks, and those of our vendors, suppliers and other business partners, may become the target of cyberattacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary information, personal information and other data, or other disruption of our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as unauthorized surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. Our systems and insurance coverage for protecting against cyber security risks, including cyberattacks, may not be sufficient and may not protect against or cover all of the losses we may experience as a result of the realization of such risks. As cyber incidents continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate the effects of cyber incidents. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders, including 23 limitations on the removal of directors; limitations on the ability of our shareholders to call special meetings; advance notice provisions for shareholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of shareholders; providing that the board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our bylaws; and establishing advance notice and certain information requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings. We may grow through acquisitions and our failure to properly plan and manage those acquisitions may adversely affect our performance. We have completed and may in the future pursue, asset acquisitions or acquisitions of businesses. Any acquisition of assets or businesses involves potential risks, including the failure to realize expected profitability, growth or accretion; environmental or regulatory compliance matters or liability; title or permit issues; the incurrence of significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill, or property, plant and equipment or restructuring charges; and the incurrence of unanticipated liabilities and costs for which indemnification is unavailable or inadequate. The process of upgrading acquired assets to our specifications and integrating acquired assets or businesses may also involve unforeseen costs and delays or other operational, technical and financial difficulties and may require a significant amount time and resources and may divert management attention from existing operations or other priorities. We must plan and manage any acquisitions effectively to achieve revenue growth and maintain profitability in our evolving market. Any failure to manage acquisitions effectively or integrate acquired assets or businesses into our existing operations successfully, or to realize the expected benefits from an acquisition or minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. As of December 31, 2018 , we had approximately $516.0 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards that will begin to expire in 2032 and state net operating losses of approximately $50.0 million that will begin to expire in 2024 . Utilization of these net operating loss carryforwards ( NOLs ) depends on many factors, including our future income, which cannot be assured. In addition, Section 382 ( Section 382 ) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code ), generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of taxable income that may be offset by NOLs when a corporation has underg1 an ownership change (as determined under Section 382). Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a corporation stock, by value, over a 3 year period constitutes an ownership change for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limitations, be carried over to later years. We have experienced ownership changes, which may result in annual limitation under Section 382 determined by multiplying the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable long term tax exempt rate as defined in Section 382, increased under certain circumstances as a result of recognizing built in gains in our assets existing at the time of the ownership change. The limitations arising from ownership changes may prevent utilization of our NOLs prior to their expiration. Future ownership changes or regulatory changes could further limit our ability to utilize our NOLs. To the extent we are not able to offset our future income with our NOLs, this could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows if we attain profitability. Future regulations relating to and interpretations of the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or the Tax Act, was signed into law on December 22, 2017. Among other things, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, imposes significant additional limitations 24 on the deductibility of interest, and allows the expensing of capital expenditures. The Tax Act is highly complex and subject to interpretation. The presentation of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our current interpretation of the provisions contained in the Tax Act. The Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service continue to release regulations relating to and interpretive guidance of the legislation contained in the Tax Act. Any significant variance of our current interpretation of such legislation from any future regulations or interpretive guidance could result in a change to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our business. Our certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our shareholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the DGCL ), our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our certificate of incorporation described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a shareholder ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, 1 or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to certain requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 or if we or our auditors identify and report material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, our investors may lose confidence in our reported information and our stock price may be negatively affected. We are required to comply with certain provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404. Section 404 requires that we document and test our internal control over financial reporting and issue our management assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. This section also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm issue an attestation report on such internal control. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404, or if we or our auditors identify and report material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of the filing of our annual and quarterly reports may be materially adversely affected and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could result in an increased chance of fraud and the loss of customers, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures to comply with these requirements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects, results of operations and cash flows. 25 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. N1 Item 2 Properties
