CIK: 1681459
Company Name: TECHNIPFMC PLC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-03-11
Accession Number: 0001681459-19-000011


ITEM 1 BUSINESS Overview TechnipFMC plc, a public limited company incorporated and organized under the laws of England and Wales, with registered number 09909709, and with registered office at 1 St. Paul Churchyard, London EC4M 8AP, United Kingdom ( TechnipFMC , the Company, we, or our ) is a global energy service company with a portfolio of solutions for the production and transformation of hydrocarbons. These solutions range from discreet products and services to fully integrated solutions based on proprietary technologies, with a clear focus to deliver greater efficiency across project lifecycles from concept to delivery and beyond. We have operational headquarters in Paris, France and Houston, Texas, United States. We operate across 3 business segments Subsea, Onshore Offshore, and Surface Technologies. Through these segments, we are levered to the 3 energy growth areas of unconventionals, liquified natural gas ( LNG ), and deepwater developments. We have a unique and comprehensive set of capabilities to serve the oil and gas industry. With our proprietary technologies and production systems, integration expertise, and comprehensive solutions, we are transforming our clients project economics. Enhancement of the Company performance and competitiveness is a key comp1nt of this strategy that is achieved through technology and innovation differentiation, seamless execution, and reliance on simplification to drive costs down. We are targeting profitable and sustainable growth, seizing growing market opportunities, expanding the range of our services, and managing our assets efficiently to ensure that we are well prepared to drive and benefit from the recovery we are experiencing in many of the segments we serve. Each of our more than 37,000 employees is driven by a steadfast commitment to clients and a culture of purposeful innovation, challenging industry conventions, and finding new and better ways of working to unlock possibilities. This leads to fresh thinking, streamlined decisions, and smarter results, enabling us to achieve our vision of enhancing the performance of the world energy industry. History In March 2015, FMC Technologies, Inc., a U.S. Delaware corporation ( FMC Technologies ), and Technip S.A., a French soci t anonyme ( Technip ), signed an agreement to form an exclusive alliance and to launch Forsys Subsea, a 50 50 joint venture, that would unite the skills and capabilities of 2 subsea industry leaders. This alliance, which became operational on June 1, 2015, was established to identify new and innovative approaches to the design, delivery, and maintenance of subsea fields. Forsys Subsea brought the industry's most talented subsea professionals together early in operators project concept phase with the technical capabilities to design and integrate products, systems and installation to significantly reduce the cost of subsea field development and enhance overall project economics. Based on the success of the Forsys joint venture and its innovative approach to integrate solutions, Technip and FMC Technologies announced in May 2016 that the companies would combine through a merger of equals to create a global leader, TechnipFMC, that would drive change by redefining the production and transformation of oil and gas. The business combination was completed on January 16, 2017 (the Merger ), and on January 17, 2017, TechnipFMC began operating as a unified, combined company trading on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) and on the Eur1xt Paris Stock Exchange ( Eur1xt Paris ) under the symbol FTI. 4 In 2017, our first year as a merged company, TechnipFMC secured several project awards as many operators moved forward with final investment decisions for major onshore projects and subsea developments. Several of the subsea awards incorporated the use of our integrated approach to project delivery, validating our unique business model aimed at lowering project costs and accelerating the delivery of initial hydrocarbon production. This approach was made possible by bringing together the complimentary work scopes of the merged companies. With the industry most comprehensive and only truly integrated market offering, we have continued to expand the deepwater opportunity set for our customers. TechnipFMC expertise does not end with the production of hydrocarbons. Because of its best in class project design and execution capabilities, enabled by a portfolio of proprietary technologies, TechnipFMC continues to secure and deliver projects that further enable our clients to m1tize resources from liquefaction of gas, both onshore and on floating vessels, through refining and product facilities. The Company continues to innovate and introduce new technologies across our portfolio of products and services. TechnipFMC also delivered strong financial performance in 2018, driven by a relentless focus on operational execution and cost reduction activities. BUSINESS SEGMENTS Subsea The Subsea segment provides integrated design, engineering, procurement, manufacturing, fabrication and installation, and life of field services for subsea systems, subsea field infrastructure, and subsea pipe systems used in oil and gas production and transportation. We are an industry leader in front end engineering and design ( FEED ), subsea production systems ( SPS ), flexible pipe, and subsea umbilicals, risers, and flowlines ( SURF ). We also have the capability to install these products and related subsea infrastructure with our fleet of highly specialized vessels. By driving even greater value through integrating the SPS and SURF work scopes and more efficiently execute the installation campaign, our strong commercial focus has enabled the successful market introduction of an integrated subsea business model, iEPCI ( iEPCI ), which spans a project early phase design the life of field. Our integrated model business model is unlocking incremental opportunities and materially expanding the deepwater opportunity set. Through integrated FEED studies, or iFEED ( iFEED ), we are uniquely positi1d to influence project concept and design. Using innovative solutions for field architecture, including standardized equipment, new technologies, and simplified installation, we can significantly reduce subsea development costs and accelerate time to first production. Our first mover advantage and ability to convert iFEED studies into iEPCI contracts, often as a direct award, creates a unique set of opportunities for the Company that are not available to our peers. This allows us to deliver a fully integrated and technologically differentiated subsea system, and to better manage the complete work scope through a single contracting mechanism and single interface, yielding great improvements in project economics and time to first oil. Our Subsea business depends on our ability to maintain a cost effective and efficient production system, achieve planned equipment production targets, successfully develop new products, and meet or exceed stringent performance and reliability standards. Principal Products and Services Subsea Production Systems. Our systems are used in the offshore production of crude oil and natural gas. Subsea systems are placed on the seafloor and are used to control the flow of crude oil and natural gas from the reservoir to a host processing facility, such as a floating production facility, a fixed platform, or an onshore facility. Our subsea production systems and products include subsea trees, chokes and flow modules, manifold pipeline systems, control and data management systems, well access systems, multiphase and wetgas meters, and additional technologies. The design and manufacture of our subsea systems requires a high degree of technical expertise and innovation. Some of our systems are designed to withstand exposure to the extreme hydrostatic pressure of deepwater environments, as well as internal pressures of up to 20,000 pounds per square inch ( psi ) and temperatures of up to 400 F. The development of our integrated subsea production systems includes initial engineering design studies and field development planning to consider all relevant aspects and project requirements, including optimization of drilling programs and subsea architecture. 5 Our subsea processing systems, which include subsea boosting, subsea gas compression, and subsea separation, are designed to accelerate production, increase recovery, extend field life, and or lower operators production costs. To provide these products, systems and services, we utilize our engineering, project management, procurement, manufacturing, and assembly and test capabilities. Flexible Pipe and Umbilical Supply. We perform the engineering and manufacturing of flexible pipes, relying on our engineering centers, and the thermoplastic, steel tube, hybrid (a combination of steel tube, thermoplastic hose, and electrical cables), and power cable umbilical manufacturing units across various regions. In other markets, TechnipFMC vessels will typically perform the installation of the flexible pipes and umbilicals but we will also provide these products to other vessels. We use our engineering and technical expertise to respond to tenders from a variety of clients including oil companies, engineering, procurement, construction, and installation services ( EPCI ) contractors and other subsea production system manufacturers, often as part of a broader scope. Vessels. We operate a fleet of 18 vessels, with 1 additional vessel under construction. Of the 18 vessels currently in operation, we have sole ownership of eight vessels, ownership of seven vessels as part of joint ventures and operate 3 vessels under long term charter. We wholly own five pipelay support vessels and jointly own eight subsea construction vessels, including 1 under construction. The jointly owned vessels operate under a 50 50 ownership structure exclusively in the Brazilian market. These vessels are primarily contracted to Petr leo Brasileiro S.A. Petrobras ( Petrobras ), principally to install umbilical and flexible flowlines and risers to connect subsea wells to floating production units across a range of water depths. We also own 1 subsea construction and pipelay vessel mostly dedicated to the Asia Pacific market and have long term charter agreements for 3 further construction vessels. The Company also owns 2 dive support vessels. Subsea Services. We provide an array of subsea services to improve uptime, lower lifecycle costs and increase recovery over the life of the field for our clients subsea production systems. These services include (i) provision of exploration and production well head systems; (ii) installation and well completion; (iii) asset management services for test, maintenance, refurbishment, and upgrade of subsea equipment and tooling; (iv) field performance services based on product data and field data to optimize the performance of the subsea production system; (v) inspection, maintenance, and repair ( IMR ) of subsea infrastructure; (vi) well access and intervention services, both rig based and vessel based (riserless light well intervention or RLWI ), to enhance well production; (vii) remotely operated vehicle ( ROV ) services; and (viii) well plug and abandonment and decommissioning. Key drivers of subsea services market activity are the inspection and maintenance of subsea infrastructure, driven in large part by aging infrastructure on mature fields. The need for well intervention services also continues to grow, with more than 6,000 wells operated globally, of which 33% are older than 10 years and 65% are older than five years. With our extensive experience in subsea equipment, our large installed base of subsea production equipment, our broad range of services, and our historical technical leadership, we are in a unique position to offer integrated solutions through life of field services combining asset light solutions (e.g., RLWI), digital services (e.g., Condition Performance Monitoring Flow Manager suite of applications), and leading edge automated systems (e.g., Schilling ROVs, In service Riser Inspection System or IRIS ) to enhance the economics of producing fields through maximization of asset uptime, higher production volumes and lower operating expense. Robotics, Controls and Automation. We design and manufacture ROVs and manipulator arms that are used in subsea drilling, construction, IMR, and life of field services. Our product offering includes electric and hydraulic work class ROVs, tether management systems, launch and recovery systems, remote manipulator arms, and modular control systems . We also provide support and services such as product training, pilot simulator training, spare parts, and technical assistance. We also provide electro hydraulic and electric production and intervention control systems, allowing accurate control and monitoring of subsea installations to ensure the highest production availability while providing safe and environmentally friendly field operations. These include the sensors, multiphase flow meters, digital infrastructure, integrity monitoring, control functionality, and automation features needed for subsea systems. Robotics capabilities are now being used in the control of manifold valves during production. This is a convergence of our technologies in order to provide better systems for our customers. 6 Engineering, Manufacturing and Supply Chain ( EMS ) is a new organization we formed in November 2017 to help achieve productivity improvements by reducing the cost of engineering and manufacturing our products, including working with our suppliers to reduce their costs, and optimizing our processes and how we manage workflow. Through EMS, we are focused on implementing world class manufacturing practices, including lean flow and automation, to improve reliability while reducing total product cost and lead time to delivery. Our EMS organization primarily supports our subsea segment but is also integrated across our business. Capital Intensity Many of the systems and products we supply for subsea applications are highly engineered to meet the unique demands of our customers field properties and are typically ordered 1 to 2 years prior to installation. We often receive advance payments and progress billings from our customers to fund initial development and working capital requirements. However, our working capital balances can vary significantly depending on the payment terms and execution timing on contracts. Dependence on Key Customers Generally, our customers in this segment are major integrated oil companies, national oil companies, and independent exploration and production companies. We actively pursue alliances with companies that are engaged in the subsea development of oil and natural gas to promote our integrated systems for subsea production. These alliances are typically related to the procurement of subsea production equipment, although some alliances are related to EPCI services. Development of subsea fields, particularly in deepwater environments, involves substantial capital investments. Operators have also sought the security of alliances with us to ensure timely and cost effective delivery of subsea and other energy related systems that provide integrated solutions to meet their needs. Our alliances establish important ongoing relationships with our customers. While these alliances do not contractually commit our customers to purchase our systems and services, they have historically led to, and we expect that they would continue to result in, such purchases. No single Subsea customer accounted for 10% or more of our 2018 consolidated revenue. Competition As a result of the Merger, we are the only company that can provide the full suite of subsea production equipment, umbilicals, and flowlines, as well as the installation services to develop a subsea production field. Our company competes with companies that supply some of the comp1nts as well as installation companies. Our competitors include Aker Solutions ASA, Baker Hughes, a GE Company ( BHGE ), Dril Quip, Inc., McDermott International, Inc. ( McDermott ), National Oilwell Varco, Oceaneering International, Inc., Saipem S.p.A. ( Saipem ), Schlumberger, Ltd. ( Schlumberger ), and Subsea 7 S.A. Seasonality In the North Sea, winter weather generally subdues drilling activity, reducing vessel utilization and demand for subsea services as certain activities cannot be performed. As a result, the level of offshore activity in our Subsea segment is negatively impacted in the first quarter of each year. Market Environment The low crude oil price environment over the last 3 years led many of our customers to reduce their capital spending plans or defer new deepwater projects. The reduction and deferral of projects has resulted in delayed subsea project inbound for the industry. In response to the lower commodity prices and reduced cash flow, operators took actions needed to improve their subsea project economics, and suppliers, in turn, took the steps necessary to further reduce project break even levels by offering cost effective approaches for project developments. These actions continue. The rate of project sanctioning for new subsea developments has moved higher since the market trough as project economics and operator confidence have improved. The risk of project sanctioning delays is still present in the current environment; however, innovative approaches to subsea projects, like our iEPCI solution, have improved project economics, and many offshore discoveries can be developed economically at today crude oil prices. In the long term, deepwater development is expected to remain a significant part of many of our customers portfolios. 7 Strategy With our proprietary technologies and production systems, integration expertise, and comprehensive solutions, we are transforming our clients project economics. We have used these capabilities to develop a new subsea commercial model that is transforming the way we interact with our customers and create value with them. Our strategy includes the following priorities Engagement in the conceptual design and integrated front end engineering, or iFEED, of subsea development projects to create value through technology and integration of scopes (iEPCI) by simplifying field architecture and accelerating both delivery schedules and time to first production; Innovative research and development ( R&D ), often in collaboration with clients and partners, to develop leading products and technologies that deliver greater efficiency to the client, lower development costs, and enable frontier developments; Superior project execution capabilities allowing the Company to mobilize the right teams, assets, and facilities to capture and profitably execute complex subsea projects and services; Capitalize on combined competencies coming from alliances and partnerships with both clients and suppliers; and Leverage supplier relationships to optimize supply chain market dynamics and implement greater simplification and standardization in products and processes. Recent and Future Developments With many of our customers reducing their capital spending plans or deferring new deepwater projects in response to the low crude oil price environment, we have adjusted our workforce and manufacturing capacity to align our operations with our anticipated outlook for project inbound. These restructuring actions have resulted in a leaner cost structure. The operational improvements and cost reductions made in 2016, combined with additional actions taken in 2017 and 2018, will partially offset the anticipated decline in operating margins in 2019. A completely new suite of products called Subsea 20 ( Subsea 20 ), commercialized in November 2017, is gaining traction, and the first comp1nts are already in the water. Relative to traditional subsea equipment, the Subsea 20 technology portfolio significantly reduces the size, weight, and part count of the equipment installed on the seabed. Subsea 20 technologies can enhance project economics both as a stand al1 offering and as part of an integrated solution, further unlocking oil and gas reserves that otherwise would not be developed. We believe that 2016 marked the inflection in subsea order activity as demonstrated by the increased number of final investment decisions made on offshore project developments. The Company full year Subsea inbound orders increased significantly in 2017 and remained at this improved level in 2018, with integrated project awards taking greater share of our order activity. Our integrated business model is clearly demonstrating the ability to positively impact project economics and expand the deepwater opportunity set. In the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company performed impairment assessments and determined that goodwill and certain of our vessels had carrying values that exceeded their fair value, resulting in an impairment. Refer to Note 12 and Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in I, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for additional information on these impairments. In 2019, we expect to see another increase in subsea market activity. We also anticipate a further increase in our inbound orders, where we expect our iEPCI capabilities to provide a competitive advantage as we deliver comprehensive and differentiated solutions. In addition, we anticipate the following longer term trends in the subsea market Increased market adoption of integrated subsea projects, leading to further penetration of our integrated business model and higher levels of iEPCI order activity for our Company; Growing service opportunities, driven by (i) higher levels of project activity, (ii) increased asset integrity and production management activities focused on improving uptime and production volume, and (iii) increased maintenance and intervention activity resulting from an expanding and aging installed equipment base; Smaller projects and direct awards will continue to contribute meaningfully to our order mix. In 2017 and 2018, these awards collectively represented just under 1 half of total subsea inbound orders, with the remainder being publicly announced projects and subsea service activities. Subsea tiebacks are often part of this mix, and these shorter cycle brownfield expansions provide operators with faster paybacks and higher returns; 8 Capital expenditures for new greenfield projects will be sancti1d and average project size will increase as the subsea market recovery develops; There is a growing trend towards independent operators and new entrants undertaking subsea developments; we are a natural partner for this customer group because of our ability to offer fully integrated solutions; and Natural gas developments are growing in prominence. We believe that more than half of offshore capital expenditures could be directed at natural gas developments by early next decade. We continue to work closely with our customers and believe that, in the context of lower oil prices, with our unique business model we can further reduce their project break even levels by offering cost effective approaches to their project developments and accelerate time to first oil and gas. Product Development We continue to expand our Subsea portfolio of technology based solutions to deliver a complete production system for high pressure and high temperature applications. In 2014, we entered into a joint development agreement with several major operators to develop common standards for subsea production equipment capable of operating at pressures as high as 20,000 psi and temperatures up to 350 F. This joint development agreement is delivering standardized design, materials, processes, and interfaces to provide improved reliability and operations over the life of the field. Technology development progressed on the Subsea 20 product platform, the next generation of subsea equipment, using designs that are significantly simpler, leaner, and smarter than current designs. These new products incorporate a modular product architecture and comp1nt level standardization to enable a flexible configure to order approach that delivers a 70 90% reduction in manual activities during the production process, reducing hardware delivery time for clients. The products are expected to deliver breakthroughs in the way subsea products are manufactured, assembled, installed, and maintained over the life of the field. The smaller, lighter products achieve up to a 50% reduction in size, weight, and part count, while maintaining the same or improved functionality. When combined with iEPCI, our powerful integrated approach to field architecture, and project execution, Subsea 20 improves project economics and unlocks first oil and gas faster. Several major elements of the portfolio were launched to the market during the year, including the compact tree, compact manifold, flexible jumpers, distribution, controls, and horizontal connectors. We have incorporated Subsea 20 elements into several projects including the Shell Kaikias subsea development, which sits in 4,575 feet of water in the Gulf of Mexico and is a tieback to the Ursa platform. On March 4, 2018, TechnipFMC and Shell celebrated the successful delivery and installation of the first application of TechnipFMC compact pipeline and manifold ( PLEM ) and horizontal connection system technologies with flexible jumpers. We also completed the development of our second generation of electrically trace heated pipe in pipe ( ETH PiP ), which delivers significant advancements in power output and length enabling hydrate prevention in longer distance tiebacks of 50 kilometers or more. In addition to investments to develop lower cost production solutions, we also invest in the development of technology to expand our service portfolio. During the year, we qualified new technology to enable the inspection of flexible risers and flowlines. We also are advancing subsea robotic productivity through the development of more efficient ROV systems that are easier to operate and maintain. Acquisitions and Investments In February 2018, we signed an agreement with the Island Offshore Group to acquire a 51% stake in Island Offshore wholly owned subsidiary, Island Offshore Subsea AS. Island Offshore Subsea AS provides RLWI project management and engineering services for plug and abandonment ( P&A ), riserless coiled tubing, and well completion operations. In connection with the acquisition of the controlling interest, TechnipFMC and Island Offshore entered into a strategic cooperation agreement to deliver RLWI services on a worldwide basis, which also include TechnipFMC RLWI capabilities. Island Offshore Subsea AS has been rebranded to TIOS and is now the operating unit for TechnipFMC RLWI activities worldwide. In March 2018, we announced a collaboration agreement with Magma Global Ltd. to develop a new generation of hybrid flexible pipe ( HFP ) for use in offshore applications. HFP is expected to provide increased strength and fatigue performance, while also achieving dramatic weight and cost reductions, for subsea fluid transport applications. As part of the collaboration, TechnipFMC purchased a minority stake in Magma Global. 9 Onshore Offshore The Onshore Offshore segment offers a full range of designing and project development services to our customers spanning the entire downstream value chain, including technical consulting, concept selection, and final acceptance test. We have been successful in meeting our clients needs given our proven skills in managing large engineering, procurement, and construction ( EPC ) projects. Our Onshore business combines the study, engineering, procurement, construction, and project management of the entire range of onshore facilities related to the production, treatment, and transportation of oil and gas, as well as the transformation of petrochemicals such as ethylene, polymers, and fertilizers, as well as other activities. We conduct large scale, complex, and challenging projects that involve extreme climatic conditions and non conventional resources and are subject to increasing environmental and regulatory performance standards. We rely on technological know how for process design and engineering, either through the integration of technologies from leading alliance partners or through our own technologies. We seek to integrate and develop advanced technologies and reinforce our project execution capabilities in each of our Onshore activities. Our Offshore business combines the study, engineering, procurement, construction, and project management within the entire range of fixed and floating offshore oil and gas facilities, many of which were the first of their kind, including the development of floating liquefied natural gas ( FLNG ) facilities. Principal Products and Services Onshore Field Development We design and build different types of facilities for the development of onshore oil and gas, processing facilities, and product export systems. In addition, we also renovate existing facilities by modernizing production equipment and control systems, in accordance with applicable environmental standards. Refining We are a leader in the design and construction of oil refineries. We manage many aspects of these projects, including the preparation of concept and feasibility studies, and the design, construction, and start up of complex refineries or single refinery units. We have been involved in the design and construction of 30 new refineries, and are 1 of the few contractors in the world to have built six new refineries since 2000. We have extensive experience with technologies related to refining and have completed more than 850 individual process units, from 100 major expansion or refurbishment projects implemented in more than 75 countries. As a result of our cooperation with the most highly renowned technology licensors and catalyst suppliers and our strong technological expertise and refinery consulting services, we are able to provide an independent selection of appropriate technologies to meet specific project and client targets. These technologies result in direct benefits to the client, such as emission control and environmental protection, including hydrogen and carbon dioxide management, sulfur recovery units, water treatment, and zero flaring. With a strong record of accomplishment in refinery optimization projects, we have experience and competence in relevant technological fields in the oil refining sector. Natural Gas Treatment and Liquefaction We offer a complete range of services across the gas value chain to support our clients capital projects from concept to delivery. Our capabilities include the design and construction of facilities for LNG, gas to liquids ( GTL ), natural gas liquids ( NGL ) recovery, and gas treatment. In the field of LNG, we pi1ered base load LNG plant construction through the first ever facility in Arzew, Algeria. Working with our partners, we have constructed facilities that can deliver more than 90 million metric tons per annum ( Mtpa ), representing over 20% of the global liquefaction capacity in operation today. TechnipFMC brings knowledge and conceptual design capabilities that are unique among engineering and construction companies involved in LNG. We have engineered and delivered a broad range of LNG plants, including mid scale and very large scale plants, both onshore and offshore, and plants in remote locations. We have experience in the complete range of services for LNG receiving terminals from conceptual design studies to EPC. Reference projects include LNG trains in Qatar (the six largest ever constructed), Yemen, and a series of mid scale LNG plants in China, and together with our joint venture partners, we are currently delivering the Yamal LNG plant ( Yamal ) in the Russian Arctic with the 3 trains put in production before the end of 2018. We are also well positi1d in the GTL market and are 1 of the few contractors with experience in large GTL facilities. We have unique experience in delivering plants using Sasol Slurry Phase Distillate technology, and we have provided front end engineering design for the Fischer Tropsch section of more than 60% of commercial coal to liquids and GTL capacity worldwide. Our clients also benefit from our development of environmental protection measures, including low nitrogen oxide and sulfur oxide emissions, waste water treatment, and waste management. 10 We specialize in the design and construction of large scale gas treatment complexes as well as existing facility upgrades. Gas treatment includes the removal of carbon dioxide and sulfur comp1nts from natural gas using chemical or physical solvents, sulfur recovery, and gas sweetening processes based on the use of an amine solvent. The Company ranks among the top contractors in the field in relation to sulfur recovery units installed in refineries or natural gas processing plants. Given our long term experience in the field of sour gas processing, we can provide support to clients for the overall evaluation of the gas sweetening sulfur recovery chain and the selection of optimum technologies. Ethylene We hold proprietary technologies and are a leader in the design, construction, and commissioning of ethylene production plants. We design steam crackers, from concept stage through construction and commissioning, for both new plants (including mega crackers) and plant expansions. We have a portfolio of the latest generation of commercially proven technologies and are uniquely positi1d to be both a licensor and an EPC contractor. Our technological developments have improved the energy efficiency in ethylene plants by improving thermal efficiency of the furnaces and reducing the compression power required per ton, reducing carbon dioxide emissions per ton of ethylene by 30% over the last 25 years. Petrochemicals and Fertilizers We are 1 of the world leaders in the process design, licensing, and realization of petrochemical units, including basic chemicals, intermediate and derivative plants. We provide a range of services that includes process technology licensing and development and full EPC complexes. We license a portfolio of chemical technologies through long standing alliances and relationships with leading manufacturing companies and technology providers. We have research centers to develop and test technologies for polymer and petrochemical applications, where fully automated pilot plants gather design data to scale up processes for commercialization Hydrogen Hydrogen is the most widely used industrial gas in the refining, chemical, and petrochemical industries, and is also widely used in the production of cleaner transport fuels. We offer a single point of responsibility for the design and construction of hydrogen and synthesis gas production units, with solutions ranging from Process Design Packages to full lump sum turnkey projects. We also offer services for maintenance and performance optimization of running units. We have solutions in place for carbon capture readiness in future hydrogen plants, targeting more than a 2 thirds reduction in carbon dioxide release from the hydrogen plant. Fixed Platforms We offer a broad range of fixed platform solutions in shallow water, including (i) large conventional platforms with pile steel jackets whose topsides are installed offshore either by heavy lift vessel or floatover; (ii) small, conventional platforms installed by small crane vessel; (iii) steel gravity based structure platforms, generally with floatover topsides; and (iv) small to large self installing platforms. Floating Production Units We offer a broad range of floating platform solutions for moderate to ultra deepwater applications, including Spar Platforms Capable of operating in a wide range of water depths, the Spar is a low motion floater that can support full drilling with dry trees or with tender assist and flexible or steel catenary risers. The Spar topside is installed offshore either by heavy lift vessel or floatover. Semi Submersible Platforms These platforms are well suited to oil field developments where subsea wells drilled by the mobile offshore drilling unit are appropriate. Semi Submersibles can operate in a wide range of water depths and have full drilling and large topside capability. We have our own unique design of low motion Semi Submersible platforms that can accommodate dry trees. Tension Leg Platforms ( TLP ) An appropriate platform for deepwater drilling and production in water depths up to approximately 1,500 meters, the TLP can be configured with full drilling or with tender assist and is generally a dry tree unit. The TLP and our topside can be integrated onto the substructure at a cost effective manner at quayside. Floating Production, Storage and Offloading ( FPSO ) Working with our construction partners, we have delivered some of the largest FPSOs in the world. FPSOs enable offshore production and storage of oil which is then transported by a tanker where pipeline export is uneconomic or technically challenged (for example, ultra deepwater). FPSOs utilize onshore processes adapted to a floating marine environment. They can support large topsides and hence large production capacities. Leveraging our industry leading capabilities in gas m1tization, particularly FLNG, we are currently well positi1d to leverage the global offshore gas cycle with gas FPSO. 11 Floating Liquefied Natural Gas ( FLNG ) FLNG is an innovative alternative to traditional onshore LNG plants and is suitable for remote and stranded gas fields that were previously deemed uneconomical. FLNG is a commercially attractive and environmentally friendly approach to the m1tization of offshore gas fields. It avoids the potential environmental impact of building and operating long distance pipelines and extensive onshore infrastructure. We pi1ered the FLNG industry and are the only contractor to integrate all of the core activities required to deliver an FLNG project LNG process, offshore facilities, loading systems, and subsea infrastructure. We delivered the industry first and largest FLNG facilities and are currently executing 2 FLNG projects, Shell Prelude and ENI Coral South, with the latter being the inaugural LNG facility in Africa. Capital Intensity Our Onshore Offshore business executes turnkey contracts on a lump sum or reimbursable basis through engineering, procurement, construction, and project management services on both brownfield and greenfield developments and projects. We can execute EPC contracts through sole responsibility, joint ventures, or consortiums with other companies. We often receive advance payments and progress billings from our customers to fund initial development and working capital requirements. However, our working capital balances can vary significantly through the project lifecycle depending on the payment terms and timing on contracts. Dependence on Key Customers Generally, our Onshore Offshore customers are major integrated oil companies or national oil companies. We have developed privileged relationships with our main clients around our portfolio of technologies, expertise in project management, and execution. Our customers have sought the security of alliances with us to ensure timely and cost effective delivery of their projects. 1 customer, JSC Yamal LNG, represented more than 10% of 2018 consolidated revenue. We consolidate all revenue from the JSC Yamal LNG partnership, including revenue associated with the minority partners of the joint venture. Competition In the Onshore market, we face a large number of competitors, including U.S. companies (Bechtel Corporation, Fluor Corporation, Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., KBR, Inc. ( KBR ), and McDermott), Japanese companies (Chiyoda Corporation, JGC Corporation, and Toyo Engineering Corporation), European companies (Maire Tecnimont Group, Petrofac, Ltd., Saipem, Tecnicas Reunidas, S.A., and John Wood Group plc), and Korean companies (Daelim Industrial Co., Ltd., GS Caltex Corporation, Hyundai Oilbank, Samsung Engineering Co., Ltd., and SK Energy Co., Ltd.). In addition, we compete against smaller, specialized, and locally based engineering and construction companies in certain countries or for specific units such as petrochemicals. Competition in the Offshore market is relatively fragmented and includes various players with different core capabilities, including offshore construction contractors, shipyards, leasing contractors, and local yards in Asia Pacific, the Middle East, and Africa. Competitors include Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co., Ltd., Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., Ltd., Samsung Heavy Industries Co., Ltd., Saipem, KBR, McDermott, China Offshore Oil Engineering Co., Ltd., and JGC Corporation. Seasonality Our Onshore business is generally not impacted by seasonality. Our Offshore business could be impacted by seasonality in the North Sea region during the offshore installation campaign at the end of a project. Market Environment The Onshore market is impacted by changes in oil and gas prices, but is typically more resilient than offshore markets. Indeed, some downstream markets have benefited from low commodity prices where market fundamentals are influenced by other economic factors (e.g., petrochemicals and fertilizers that are linked to world growth). This market dynamic is mostly present in developing countries with rapidly growing energy demand (in particular, Asia) and countries with abundant oil and gas reserves that have decided to expand downstream (in particular, the Middle East and Russia). The Onshore market remains relatively small in Western Europe, although with a diversity of projects, including a second generation of bio ethanol plants. The North American Onshore market is experiencing a strong recovery in the wake of the oil and gas shale revolution. 12 The Offshore market is more directly impacted by changes in oil prices. Offshore fields in the Gulf of Mexico, the Middle East, and the North Sea were the traditional backb1 for investments in the last decade. Recent discoveries of offshore fields with reserves in other regions such as Brazil, Australia, and East Africa are expected to become drivers of increased investment. In the long term, gas is expected to become a bigger portion of the global energy mix, requiring new investments in the upstream industry. Strategy Our strategy is based on the following Selectivity of clients, projects, and geographies, which serves to maintain early engagement, leading to influence over technological choices, design considerations, and project specifications that make projects economically viable; Technology driven differentiation with strong project management, which eliminates or significantly reduces technical and project risks, leading to both schedule and cost certainty without compromising safety; and Excellence in project execution, because of our global, multi center project delivery model complemented by deep partnerships and alliances to ensure the best possible execution for complex projects. TechnipFMC Onshore Offshore segment continually invests in innovation and technology. The Company is at the forefront of digital solutions due in part to our investment in 3D models and interfaces. Recent and Future Developments In response to industry challenges to improve project economics in the Offshore market, we are continuing our cost reduction efforts to align capacity and capabilities with market demands. As such, in 2018 we sold our interest in the Pori Offshore yard in Finland. Onshore market activity continues to provide a tangible set of opportunities, including natural gas, refining, and petrochemical projects. Activity in LNG is fueled by higher demand for natural gas a fuel source continues to take a greater share of global energy demand. This trend is structural, driven by market preference for cleaner energy sources and the need to satisfy growing domestic demand in markets such as Asia and the Middle East. To meet this demand, we believe that large gas projects will need to be sancti1d in the near future, as evidenced by both the significant increase in pre FEED and FEED contract awards and higher levels of pre bid project planning experienced in 2018. As Onshore market activity levels remain stable, it provides our business with the opportunity to engage early with our clients and pursue additional front end engineering studies which serve to optimize project economics while also mitigating risks during project execution. Market opportunities for downstream front end engineering studies and full EPC projects are most prevalent in the Middle East, African, and Asian markets in both LNG and refining. We continue to track near term prospects for petrochemical and fertilizer projects as well. We believe this broad opportunity set could generate additional inbound orders in the coming years. Product Development We are positi1d as a premier provider of project execution and technology solutions which enable our customers to unlock resources at advantaged capital and operating economics. We invest Onshore Offshore R&D in these main areas (i) the development of process technology and equipment for economy of scale; (ii) continuous improvement of our proprietary process technologies and other solutions to reduce operating and investment cost; and (iii) diversification of our proprietary technology offering. Our Offshore R&D efforts are focused on improving the economics of FLNG through innovations in design and constructability. We also launched a new program to develop solutions for smaller scale FLNG and LNG import projects. Additionally, to further reduce operating and investment costs, we progressed the development of robotic solutions for offshore platforms and continue work on a standard and adaptable design for Normally Unmanned Installations ( NUI ). 13 Acquisitions and Investments In January 2017, we officially opened our Modular Manufacturing Yard at Dahej, in Gujarat state, located in Western India. The approximately 150,000 square meter yard combines our strengths in process technology, modularized engineering, and manufacturing and construction. The yard represents a culmination of our knowledge, skills, and technological expertise, covering a range of product lines including (i) designed modular hydrogen plants; (ii) modular process plant and equipment using proprietary process technology as well as partnering with leading technology partners worldwide; (iii) the comp1nts and assemblies of fired heaters, reformers, and ethylene furnaces; and (iv) proprietary special application burners. No acquisitions or significant investments occurred during 2018. Surface Technologies The Surface Technologies segment designs and manufactures products and systems, and provides services used by oil and gas companies involved in land and offshore exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. Such products and systems include wellhead systems as well as technologically advanced high pressure valves, flowlines, and pumps used in stimulation activities for oilfield service companies. Surface Technologies also provides (i) hydraulic fracturing ( frac ) systems and support services; (ii) production, separation, and flow processing systems; and (iii) measurement systems and loading arm solutions for exploration and production companies. We manufacture most of our products in facilities located worldwide. Principal Products and Services Upstream Drilling, Completion, Pressure Control, and Production We provide a full range of drilling, completion, pressure control, and production systems for both standard and custom engineered applications. Surface wellheads and trees are used to control and regulate the flow of crude oil and natural gas from the well. Our surface wellheads are used worldwide on conventional and unconventional platform base applications including desert high temperatures and shale fields. Our wellhead product portfolio includes conventional wellheads, unihead drill thru wellheads designed for faster installations, drill time optimization conventional wellheads designed to reduce overall rig time, sealing technology, thermal equipment, valves, and actuators. Our surface completions portfolio includes integrated frac solutions for shale fields that, together with our digitalized control systems, provide customers the fracturing service companies with a 1 stop shop equipment supplier from wellhead to pipeline. Our portfolio includes manifolds, trees, and well testing equipment for timely and cost effective well completion. We also provide closed loop flowback services for the recovery of solids, fluids, and hydrocarbons from oil and natural gas wells after the stimulation of the well, and we provide chokes, de sanding, and early production equipment and services through to permanent production facilities and services for oil and gas operators. We design and manufacture articulated rigid flowline products under the Weco Chiksan trademarks, flexible flowline and choke and kill products under the Coflexip trademark, articulating frac arm manifold trailers, manifold skids, well service pumps, compact valves, and reciprocating pumps used in well completion and stimulation activities by major oilfield service and drilling companies, such as BHGE, Halliburton Company, Schlumberger, Transocean, Ltd., and Weatherford International plc, as well as by oil and gas operators directly. Our flowline Coflexip products are used in equipment that pumps fluid into a well during the well construction and stimulation processes. Our Coflexip products are also used by drilling companies for choke and kill lines and other applications. Our well service pump product line includes triplex and quintuplex pumps utilized in a variety of applications, including fracturing, acidizing, and matrix stimulation, and are capable of delivering flow rates up to 35 barrels per minute at pressures up to 20,000 psi. Our production offering includes separation and processing systems, production monitoring and optimization systems, well control and integrity systems, standard pumps, compact valves, and measurement solutions designed to enhance field project economics and reduce operating expenditures with an integrated system that spans from wellhead to pipeline. We support our customers through comprehensive service packages that provide solutions to ensure optimal equipment performance and reliability. These service packages include all phases of the asset life cycle from the early planning stages through testing and installation, commissioning and operations, replacement and upgrade, intervention, decommissioning and abandonment, and maintenance, storage, and preservation. 14 Measurement Solutions We design, manufacture, and service measurement products for the worldwide oil and gas industry. Our flow computers and control systems manage and monitor liquid and gas measurement for applications such as custody transfer, fiscal measurement, and batch loading and deliveries. Our FPSO metering systems provide the precision and reliability required for measuring large flow rates characteristic of marine loading operations. Our gas and liquid measurement systems provide many solutions in energy related applications such as crude oil and natural gas production and transportation, refined product transportation, petroleum refining, and petroleum marketing and distribution. We combine advanced measurement technology with state of the art electronics and supervisory control systems to provide the measurement of both liquids and gases to ensure processes operate efficiently while reducing operating costs and minimizing the risks associated with custody transfer. Loading Systems We provide land and marine based loading and transfer systems to the oil and gas, petrochemical, and chemical industries. Our systems provide loading and transfer solutions using articulated rigid Chiksan loading arms and Chiksan swivel joint technologies and flexible based Coflexip technologies, which are capable of diverse applications. While our marine systems are typically constructed on a fixed jetty platform, we have developed advanced loading systems that can be mounted on a vessel or offshore structure to facilitate ship to ship and tandem loading and offloading operations in open seas or exposed locations. Both our land and marine based loading and transfer systems are capable of handling a wide range of products including petroleum products, LNG, and chemical products. Capital Intensity Surface Technologies manufactures most of its products, resulting in a reliance on manufacturing locations throughout the world. We also maintain a large quantity of rental equipment related to pressure operations. Dependence on Key Customers No single Surface Technologies customer accounted for 10% or more of our 2018 consolidated revenue. Competition Surface Technologies is a market leader for our primary products and services. Some of the factors that distinguish us from other companies in the same sector include our technological innovation, reliability, product quality, and ability to integrate across a broad portfolio scope. Surface Technologies competes with other companies that supply surface production equipment and pressure control products. Some of our major competitors in Surface Technologies include BHGE, Cactus, Inc., Forum Energy Technologies, Inc., Gardner Denver, Inc., Schlumberger, and The Weir Group plc. Seasonality In Western Canada, the level of activity in the oilfield services industry is influenced by seasonal weather patterns. During the spring months, wet weather and the spring thaw make the ground unstable and less capable of supporting heavy equipment and machinery. As a result, municipalities and provincial transportation departments enforce road bans that restrict the movement of heavy equipment during the spring months, which reduces activity levels. There is greater demand for oilfield services provided by our Canadian services business, specifically completion services, in the winter season when freezing permits the movement and operation of heavy equipment. Activities tend to increase in the fall and peak in the winter months of November through March. Market Environment Surface Technologies performance is typically driven by variations in global drilling activity, creating a dynamic environment. Operating results can be further impacted by pressure pumping activity and completions intensity in the Americas. The North American market recovery that began in late 2016 continued well into 2018, with rig count and drilling and completion activity steadily improving through the first half of the year. The increased activity resulted in stronger demand for the Company products and services. The market also benefited from increased service intensity related to hydraulic fracturing activity. As a result of these market dynamics, we experienced stronger demand for pressure control equipment. When combined with our cost rationalization initiatives, we were able to capture the economic benefits of the higher activity levels. Activity outside of North America remained generally stable after turning down in 2015 but continued to experience competitive pricing pressure in certain markets. 15 Strategy Our strategy is focused on being a leading provider of best cost and high performance integrated assets and services for our customers in the drilling, completion, upstream production, and midstream transportation sectors. We distinguish our offering by combining 3 elements a flawless customer experience, leading digital tools, and integrated systems. Providing a flawless customer experience is our most important priority and occupies the central pillar of our strategy. For this reason, we have developed the digital tools and customer centric organizational culture that enable our customers to seamlessly transition into the next era of hydrocarbon production. In addition, our system integration capabilities and automation technologies (i) enable reductions in both capital and operating expenditures by reducing cycle time, allowing our customers to achieve first oil faster, and (ii) optimize the production process by minimizing facility footprint, manual interventions, and environmental impacts. Recent and Future Developments We continue to operate in a challenging environment as global activity is still below levels achieved in the prior industry cycle and pricing remains competitive. In the second half of 2018, well completion activity in North America moved lower, negatively impacting demand for pressure control equipment. The activity decline was driven by pipeline takeaway capacity constraints, lower commodity prices, and the depletion of operator budgets, constraining activity to certain oil and gas basins that can generate acceptable returns. Despite the decline in completions activity, North American drilling activity continued to move higher throughout 2018. With increased well count and reduced completions, the backlog of uncompleted wells continued to grow and further supports our view that completions activity should recover in the second half of 2019 as operator budgets replenish and takeaway capacity improves. As we entered 2019, drilling activity started to decline from the recent peak levels achieved in late 2018. However, with oil prices having rebound from recent lows and operator budgets replenished in the new year, we continue to anticipate that activity levels will move higher for both drilling and completions as we progress through the year. Outside of the Americas, we expect global activity levels to improve in 2019. Confidence in an improved outlook for our business is further supported by the strong growth experienced in inbound orders and backlog in late 2018. We believe that the Middle East, Asia Pacific, and Northern Europe are best poised for new order growth. Our international business continued to experience competitive pricing pressure throughout much of 2018. We believe market pricing has since stabilized and expect this pricing environment to continue throughout 2019. Product Development In early 2018, we successfully launched the 2 10,000 psi cage choke expanding the Company traditional product offering for onshore solutions and delivering our first order to a major Middle East customer. For flow testing and early production, we launched a fully automated and digitized Flow Testing Advanced Automated Package (AAP) leveraging the Company superior de sanding and fluid separation technology and as well as our digital platform, which allows for remote monitoring and real time data capture via the cloud. We also launched compact, modular permanent production facility solutions for both onshore shale and offshore shallow water fields and have recently received our first contract award. Acquisitions and Investments In October 2017, we announced an agreement to acquire Plexus Holding plc ( Plexus ) wellhead exploration equipment and services business for jack up applications. In conjunction with our global footprint and market presence, this portfolio expansion in the mudline and high pressure, high temperature arena will enable us to be a leading provider of products and services to the global jack up exploration drilling market. This acquisition fits within our strategy to extend and strengthen our position in exploration drilling products and services while leveraging our global field presence. The acquisition closed in the first quarter of 2018. The business has been integrated into our Surface Technologies segment, including the transfer of key personnel from Plexus, with their specialized expertise, to ensure continuity and ongoing customer support. The business continues to operate from the existing location in Dyce, Aberdeen, United Kingdom. 16 In December 2017, we opened a new 18,000 square meter facility in Abu Dhabi Industrial City 2, and in June 2018, we broke ground on a new 52,000 square meter facility in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. These facilities are part of our continued investment in the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia to reinforce our leading position in delivering local solutions that extend asset life and improve project returns. They position us to respond to the expected increase in activity for Abu Dhabi National Oil Company ( ADNOC ) and Saudi Aramco in 2019 and beyond while strengthening our capabilities, providing a solid platform for us to grow our integrated offerings into this region, including multiple product lines and aftermarket services that are key to our growth strategy. The new facilities will offer a broader range of capabilities and greater value add in country, supporting our full portfolio with high technology equipment in the drilling, completion, production, and pressure control sectors. OTHER BUSINESS INFORMATION RELEVANT TO OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS Sources and Availability of Raw Materials Our business segments purchase carbon steel, stainless steel, aluminum, and steel castings and forgings from the global marketplace. We typically do not use single source suppliers for the majority of our raw material purchases; however, certain geographic areas of our businesses, or a project or group of projects, may heavily depend on certain suppliers for raw materials or supply of semi finished goods. We believe the available supplies of raw materials are adequate to meet our needs. Research and Development We are engaged in R&D activities directed toward the improvement of existing products and services, the design of specialized products to meet customer needs, and the development of new products, processes, and services. A large part of our product development spending has focused on the improved design and standardization of our Subsea and Onshore Offshore products to meet our customer needs. Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property We own a number of patents, trademarks, and licenses that are cumulatively important to our businesses. As part of our ongoing R&D focus, we seek patents when appropriate for new products, product improvements and related service innovations. We have approximately 7,000 issued patents and pending patent applications worldwide. Further, we license intellectual property rights to or from third parties. We also own numerous trademarks and trade names and have approximately 500 registrations and pending applications worldwide. We protect and promote our intellectual property portfolio and take actions we deem appropriate to enforce and defend our intellectual property rights. We do not believe, however, that the loss of any 1 patent, trademark, or license, or group of related patents, trademarks, or licenses would have a material adverse effect on our overall business. Employees As of December 31, 2018 , we had more than 37,000 employees. Segment and Geographic Financial Information The majority of our consolidated revenue and segment operating profits are generated in markets outside of the United States. Each segment revenue is dependent upon worldwide oil and gas exploration, production and petrochemical activity. Financial information about our segments and geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference from Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements in I, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 17 Order Backlog Information regarding order backlog is incorporated herein by reference from the section entitled Inbound Orders and Order Backlog in I, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Website Access to Reports and Proxy Statement Our Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, Proxy Statements, and Forms 3, 4, and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, and amendments to each of those reports and statements, are available free of charge through our website at www.technipfmc.com, under Investors Regulatory filings Regulatory filings as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). Alternatively, our reports may be accessed through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. Unless expressly noted, the information on our website or any other website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10 K and should not be considered part of this Annual Report on Form 10 K or any other filing we make with the SEC. 18 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Information regarding our executive officers called for by Item 401(b) of Regulation S K is hereby included in , Item 1 Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following table indicates the names and ages of our executive officers as of March 11, 2019 , including all offices and positions held by each in the past five years Name Age Current Position and Business Experience (Start Date) Thierry Pilenko 1 61 Executive Chairman (2017) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Technip (2007) Douglas J. Pferdehirt 1 55 Chief Executive Officer (2017) President and Chief Executive Officer of FMC Technologies (2016) President and Chief Operating Officer of FMC Technologies (2015) Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of FMC Technologies (2012) Maryann T. Mannen 1 56 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (2017) Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for FMC Technologies (2014) Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for FMC Technologies (2011) Dianne B. Ralston 1 52 Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary (2017) Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary of FMC Technologies, Inc. (2015) Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary of Weatherford International plc (2014) Deputy General Counsel Corporate of Schlumberger Limited (2012) Justin Rounce 1 52 Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer (2018) President Valves & Measurement for Schlumberger Limited (2018) Senior Vice President Marketing & Technology for Schlumberger Limited (2016) Vice President Marketing & Chief Technology Officer for Cameron International Corporation (2015) Vice President Marketing & Technology for 1Subsea (2013) Agnieszka Kmieciak 1 45 Executive Vice President People and Culture (2018) HR Director Production Group for Schlumberger Limited (2017) Talent Manager and Workforce Planning Manager for Schlumberger Limited (2015) M I SWACO HR Manager for Schlumberger Limited (2012) Arnaud Pi ton 1 45 President Subsea (2018) Executive Vice President People and Culture (2017) President Asia Pacific Region of Technip (2016) Chief Operating Officer, Subsea Asia Pacific Region of Technip (2014) Vice President, Subsea Projects North America Region of Technip (2011) Richard G. Alabaster 1 58 President Surface Technologies (2017) Vice President Surface Technologies of FMC Technologies (2015) General Manager Surface Integrated Services of FMC Technologies (2013) General Manager Fluid Control of FMC Technologies (2010) Barry Glickman 1 50 President Engineering, Manufacturing and Supply Chain (2017) Vice President Subsea Services of FMC Technologies (2015) General Manager Subsea Systems Western Region of FMC Technologies (2012) Nello Uccelletti 1 65 President Onshore Offshore (2017) President Onshore Offshore of Technip (2014) Senior Vice President Onshore Offshore of Technip (2008) Christophe B lorgeot 2 52 Senior Vice President, Corporate Engagement (2018) Vice President, Corporate Communications (2017) Senior Vice President, Communications and CEO Office of Technip (2014) Vice President, Communications of Technip (2010) Krisztina Doroghazi 3 47 Senior Vice President, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer (2018) Senior Vice President, Financing Planning and Reporting of MOL Group (2015) Regional Chief Financial Officer of MOL Group (2012) __________________ 1 Member of the Executive Leadership Team and a Rule 3b 7 executive officer and Section 16 officer under the Exchange Act 2 Member of the Executive Leadership Team 3 Section 16 officer under the Exchange Act 19 No family relationships exist among any of the above listed officers, and there are no arrangements or understandings between any of the above listed officers and any other person pursuant to which they serve as an officer. During the past 10 years, n1 of the above listed officers was involved in any legal proceedings as defined in Item 401(f) of Regulation S K. All officers are appointed by the Board of Directors to hold office until their successors are appointed. 20 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Important risk factors that could impact our ability to achieve our anticipated operating results and growth plan goals are presented below. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with discussions of our business and the factors affecting our business located elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K and in our other filings with the SEC. We operate in a highly competitive environment and unanticipated changes relating to competitive factors in our industry, including ongoing industry consolidation, may impact our results of operations. We compete on the basis of a number of different factors, such as product offerings, project execution, customer service, and price. In order to compete effectively we must develop and implement innovative technologies and processes, and execute our clients projects effectively. We can give no assurances that we will continue to be able to compete effectively with the products and services or prices offered by our competitors. Our industry, including our customers and competitors, has experienced unanticipated changes in recent years. Moreover, the industry is undergoing vertical and horizontal consolidation to create economies of scale and control the value chain, which may affect demand for our products and services because of price concessions for our competitors or decreased customer capital spending. This consolidation activity could impact our ability to maintain market share, maintain or increase pricing for our products and services or negotiate favorable contract terms with our customers and suppliers, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We are unable to predict what effect consolidations and other competitive factors in the industry may have on prices, capital spending by our customers, our selling strategies, our competitive position, our ability to retain customers or our ability to negotiate favorable agreements with our customers. Demand for our products and services depends on oil and gas industry activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in the demand for and price of crude oil and natural gas. We are substantially dependent on conditions in the oil and gas industry, including (i) the level of exploration, development and production activity, (ii) capital spending, and (iii) the processing of oil and natural gas in refining units, petrochemical sites, and natural gas liquefaction plants by energy companies that are our customers. Any substantial or extended decline in these expenditures may result in the reduced pace of discovery and development of new reserves of oil and gas and the reduced exploration of existing wells, which could adversely affect demand for our products and services and, in certain instances, result in the cancellation, modification, or re scheduling of existing orders in our backlog. These factors could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. The level of exploration, development, and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include, but are not limited to, the following demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic growth rates, and general economic and business conditions; costs of exploring for, producing, and delivering oil and natural gas; political and economic uncertainty, and socio political unrest; government policies and subsidies related to the production, use, and exportation importation of oil and natural gas; available excess production capacity within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) and the level of oil production by non OPEC countries; oil refining and transportation capacity and shifts in end customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; development, exploitation, and relative price, and availability of alternative sources of energy and our customers shift of capital to the development of these sources; volatility in, and access to, capital and credit markets, which may affect our customers activity levels, and spending for our products and services; and 21 natural disasters. The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. While oil and natural gas prices have recently started to rebound from the downturn that began in 2014, the market remains quite volatile and the sustainability of the price recovery and business activity levels is dependent on variables beyond our control, such as geopolitical stability, OPEC actions to regulate its production capacity, changes in demand patterns, and international sanctions and tariffs. Continued volatility or any future reduction in demand for oilfield services and could further adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our success depends on our ability to develop, implement, and protect new technologies and services. Our success depends on the ongoing development and implementation of new product designs, including the processes used by us to produce and market our products, and on our ability to protect and maintain critical intellectual property assets related to these developments. If we are not able to obtain patent, trade secret or other protection of our intellectual property rights, if our patents are unenforceable or the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, or if we are not able to adequately protect our patents or trade secrets, we may not be able to continue to develop our services, products and related technologies. Additionally, our competitors may be able to independently develop technology that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets. If any of these events occurs, we may be unable to meet evolving industry requirements or do so at prices acceptable to our customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The industries in which we operate or have operated expose us to potential liabilities, including the installation or use of our products, which may not be covered by insurance or may be in excess of policy limits, or for which expected recoveries may not be realized. We are subject to potential liabilities arising from, among other possibilities, equipment malfunctions, equipment misuse, personal injuries, and natural disasters, any of which may result in hazardous situations, including uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, fires, and explosions. Although we have obtained insurance against many of these risks, our insurance may not be adequate to cover our liabilities. Further, the insurance may not generally be available in the future or, if available, premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, such potential liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We may lose m1y on fixed price contracts. As customary for some of our projects, we often agree to provide products and services under fixed price contracts. We are subject to material risks in connection with such fixed price contracts. It is not possible to estimate with complete certainty the final cost or margin of a project at the time of bidding or during the early phases of its execution. Actual expenses incurred in executing these fixed price contracts can vary substantially from those originally anticipated for several reasons including, but not limited to, the following unforeseen additional costs related to the purchase of substantial equipment necessary for contract fulfillment or labor shortages in the markets for where the contracts are performed; mechanical failure of our production equipment and machinery; delays caused by local weather conditions and or natural disasters (including earthquakes and floods); and a failure of suppliers, subcontractors, or joint venture partners to perform their contractual obligations. The realization of any material risks and unforeseen circumstances could also lead to delays in the execution schedule of a project. We may be held liable to a customer should we fail to meet project milest1s or deadlines or to comply with other contractual provisions. Additionally, delays in certain projects could lead to delays in subsequent projects for which production equipment and machinery currently being utilized on a project were intended. Pursuant to the terms of fixed price contracts, we are not always able to increase the price of the contract to reflect factors that were unforeseen at the time its bid was submitted, and this risk may be heightened for projects with 22 longer terms. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance, or variations in multiple contracts, could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. New capital asset construction projects for vessels and manufacturing facilities are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, or results of operations. We regularly carry out capital asset construction projects to maintain, upgrade, and develop our asset base, and such projects are subject to risks of delay and cost overruns that are inherent to any large construction project, and are the result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, the following shortages of key equipment, materials or skilled labor; unscheduled delays in the delivery or ordered materials and equipment; design and engineering issues; and shipyard delays and performance issues. Failure to complete construction in time, or the inability to complete construction in accordance with its design specifications, may result in loss of revenue. Additionally, capital expenditures for construction projects could materially exceed the initially planned investments or can result in delays in putting such assets into operation. Our failure to timely deliver our backlog could affect future sales, profitability, and relationships with our customers. Many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times due to complex technical and logistical requirements. These contracts may contain clauses related to liquidated damages or financial incentives regarding on time delivery, and a failure by us to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to liquidated damages or loss of financial incentives, reduce our margins on these contracts, or result in damage to existing customer relationships. The ability to meet customer delivery schedules for this backlog is dependent upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, access to the raw materials required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, subcontractor performance, project engineering expertise and execution, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. Failure to deliver backlog in accordance with expectations could negatively impact our financial performance. We face risks relating to our reliance on subcontractors, suppliers, and our joint venture partners. We generally rely on subcontractors, suppliers, and our joint venture partners for the performance of our contracts. Although we are not dependent upon any single supplier, certain geographic areas of our business or a project or group of projects may depend heavily on certain suppliers for raw materials or semi finished goods. Any difficulty in engaging suitable subcontractors or acquiring equipment and materials could compromise our ability to generate a significant margin on a project or to complete such project within the allocated timeframe. If subcontractors, suppliers or joint venture partners refuse to adhere to their contractual obligations with us or are unable to do so due to a deterioration of their financial condition, we may be unable to find a suitable replacement at a comparable price, or at all. Moreover, the failure of 1 of our joint venture partners to perform their obligations in a timely and satisfactory manner could lead to additional obligations and costs being imposed on us as we may be obligated to assume our defaulting partner obligations or compensate our customers. Any delay, failure to meet contractual obligations, or other event beyond our control or not foreseeable by us, that is attributable to a subcontractor, supplier or joint venture partner, could lead to delays in the overall progress of the project and or generate significant extra costs. Even if we are entitled to make a claim for these extra costs against the defaulting supplier, subcontractor or joint venture partner, we may be unable to recover the entirety of these costs and this could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our businesses are dependent on the continuing services of certain of our key managers and employees. We depend on key personnel. The loss of any key personnel could adversely impact our business if we are unable to implement key strategies or transactions in their absence. The loss of qualified employees or failure to retain and 23 motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to successfully conduct research activities and develop marketable products and services. Pirates endanger our maritime employees and assets. We face material piracy risks in the Gulf of Guinea, the Somali Basin, and the Gulf of Aden, and, to a lesser extent, in Southeast Asia, Malacca, and the Singapore Straits. Piracy represents a risk for both our projects and our vessels, which operate and transport through sensitive maritime areas. Such risks have the potential to significantly harm our crews and to negatively impact the execution schedule for our projects. If our maritime employees or assets are endangered, additional time may be required to find an alternative solution, which may delay project realization and negatively impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Seasonal and weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our services and operations. Our business may be materially affected by variation from normal weather patterns, such as cooler or warmer summers and winters. Adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico or extreme winter conditions in Canada, Russia, and the North Sea, may interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers operations, cause supply disruptions or loss of productivity, and may result in a loss of revenue or damage to our equipment and facilities, which may or may not be insured. Any of these events or outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations. Due to the types of contracts we enter into and the markets in which we operate, the cumulative loss of several major contracts, customers, or alliances may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We often enter into large, long term contracts that, collectively, represent a significant portion of our revenue. These agreements, if terminated or breached, may have a larger impact on our operating results or our financial condition than shorter term contracts due to the value at risk. Moreover, the global market for the production, transportation, and transformation of hydrocarbons and by products, as well as the other industrial markets in which we operate, is dominated by a small number of companies. As a result, our business relies on a limited number of customers. If we were to lose several key contracts, customers, or alliances over a relatively short period of time, we could experience a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our operations require us to comply with numerous regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our operations and manufacturing activities are governed by international, regional, transnational, and national laws and regulations in every place where we operate relating to matters such as environmental protection, health and safety, labor and employment, import export controls, currency exchange, bribery and corruption, and taxation. These laws and regulations are complex, frequently change, and have tended to become more stringent over time. In the event the scope of these laws and regulations expand in the future, the incremental cost of compliance could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our international operations are subject to anti corruption laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ( FCPA ), the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 (the Bribery Act ), the anti corruption provisions of French law n 2016 1691 dated December 9, 2016 relating to Transparency, Anti corruption and Modernization of the Business Practice ( Sapin II Law ), the Brazilian Anti Bribery Act (also known as the Brazilian Clean Company Act), and economic and trade sanctions, including those administered by the United Nations, the European Union, the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury ( U.S. Treasury ), and the U.S. Department of State. The FCPA prohibits providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. We may deal with both governments and state owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. The provisions of the Bribery Act extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and are more 1rous than the FCPA in a number of other respects, including jurisdiction, non exemption of facilitation payments, and penalties. Economic and trade sanctions restrict our transactions or dealings with certain sancti1d countries, territories, and designated persons. As a result of doing business in foreign countries, including through partners and agents, we are exposed to a risk of violating anti corruption laws and sanctions regulations. Some of the international locations in which we currently or may, in the future, operate, have developing legal systems and may have higher levels of corruption than more developed nations. Our continued expansion and worldwide operations, including in developing countries, our development of joint venture relationships worldwide, and the employment of local agents in the countries in which 24 we operate increases the risk of violations of anti corruption laws and economic and trade sanctions. Violations of anti corruption laws and economic and trade sanctions are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts (and termination of existing contracts), and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. In addition, any major violations could have a significant impact on our reputation and consequently on our ability to win future business. We have implemented internal controls designed to minimize and detect potential violations of laws and regulations in a timely manner but we can provide no assurance that such policies and procedures will be followed at all times or will effectively detect and prevent violations of the applicable laws by 1 or more of our employees, consultants, agents, or partners. The occurrence of any such violation could subject us to penalties and material adverse consequences on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations in various countries affect the equipment, systems, and services we design, market, and sell, as well as the facilities where we manufacture our equipment and systems, and any other operations we undertake. We are required to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with environmental laws and regulations, and believe that we will continue to be required to do so in the future. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the issuance of orders enjoining our operations, or other claims. These laws and regulations, as well as the adoption of new legal requirements or other laws and regulations affecting exploration and development of drilling for crude oil and natural gas, are becoming increasingly strict and could adversely affect our business and operating results by increasing our costs, limiting the demand for our products and services, or restricting our operations. Existing or future laws and regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change may adversely affect our business. Existing or future laws concerning the release of greenhouse gas emissions or that concern climate change (including laws and regulations that seek to mitigate the effects of climate change) may adversely impact demand for the equipment, systems and services we design, market and sell. For example, oil and natural gas exploration and production may decline as a result of such laws and regulations and as a consequence demand for our equipment, systems and services may also decline. In addition, such laws and regulations may also result in more 1rous obligations with respect to our operations, including the facilities where we manufacture our equipment and systems. Such decline in demand for our equipment, systems and services and such 1rous obligations in respect of our operations may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Disruptions in the political, regulatory, economic, and social conditions of the countries in which we conduct business could adversely affect our business or results of operations. We operate in various countries across the world. Instability and unforeseen changes in any of the markets in which we conduct business, including economically and politically volatile areas could have an adverse effect on the demand for our services and products, our financial condition, or our results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following nationalization and expropriation; potentially burdensome taxation; inflationary and recessionary markets, including capital and equity markets; civil unrest, labor issues, political instability, terrorist attacks, cyber terrorism, military activity, and wars; supply disruptions in key oil producing countries; the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing; trade restrictions, trade protection measures, price controls, or trade disputes; 25 sanctions, such as prohibitions or restrictions by the United States against countries that are the targets of economic sanctions, or are designated as state sponsors of terrorism; foreign ownership restrictions; import or export licensing requirements; restrictions on operations, trade practices, trade partners, and investment decisions resulting from domestic and foreign laws, and regulations; regime changes; changes in, and the administration of, treaties, laws, and regulations; inability to repatriate income or capital; reductions in the availability of qualified personnel; foreign currency fluctuations or currency restrictions; and fluctuations in the interest rate comp1nt of forward foreign currency rates. DTC and Euroclear Paris may cease to act as depository and clearing agencies for our shares. Our shares were issued into the facilities of The Depository Trust Company ( DTC ) with respect to shares listed on the NYSE and Euroclear with respect to shares listed on Eur1xt Paris (DTC and Euroclear being referred to as the Clearance Services ). The Clearance Services are widely used mechanisms that allow for rapid electronic transfers of securities between the participants in their respective systems, which include many large banks and brokerage firms. The Clearance Services have general discretion to cease to act as a depository and clearing agencies for our shares. If either of the Clearance Services determine at any time that our shares are not eligible for continued deposit and clearance within its facilities, then we believe that our shares would not be eligible for continued listing on the NYSE or Eur1xt Paris, as applicable, and trading in our shares would be disrupted. Any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our shares. The United Kingdom proposed withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets, and our business. We are based in the United Kingdom and have operational headquarters in Paris, France; Houston, Texas, United States; and in London, United Kingdom, with worldwide operations, including material business operations in Europe. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the European Union in a national referendum ( Brexit ). The referendum was advisory, and the United Kingdom government served notice under Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union in March 2017 to formally initiate a withdrawal process. The United Kingdom and the European Union have had a 2 year period under Article 50 to negotiate the terms for the United Kingdom withdrawal from the European Union. The withdrawal agreement and political declaration that were endorsed at a special meeting of the European Council on November 25, 2018 did not receive the approval of the United Kingdom Parliament in January 2019. Further discussions are ongoing, although the European Commission has stated that the European Union will not reopen the withdrawal agreement. Any extension of the negotiation period for withdrawal will require the consent of the remaining 27 member states of the European Union. Brexit has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union and has given rise to calls for certain regions within the United Kingdom to preserve their place in the European Union by separating from the United Kingdom. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, could have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of the global financial markets and could significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Asset valuations, currency exchange rates, and credit ratings may be especially subject to increased market volatility. Lack of clarity about applicable future laws, regulations, or treaties as the United Kingdom negotiates the terms of a withdrawal, as well as the operation of any such rules pursuant to any withdrawal terms, including financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, intellectual property rights, supply chain logistics, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, immigration laws, employment laws, and other rules that would apply to us and our subsidiaries, could increase our costs, restrict our access to capital within the United Kingdom and the European Union, depress economic activity, and further decrease foreign direct investment in the United Kingdom. For 26 example, withdrawal from the European Union could, depending on the negotiated terms of such withdrawal, eliminate the benefit of certain tax related E.U. directives currently applicable to U.K. companies such as us, including the Parent Subsidiary Directive and the Interest and Royalties Directive, which could, subject to any relief under an available tax treaty, raise our tax costs. If the United Kingdom and the European Union are unable to negotiate mutually acceptable withdrawal terms or if other E.U. member states pursue withdrawal, barrier free access between the United Kingdom and other E.U. member states or within the European Economic Area overall could be diminished or eliminated. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As an English public limited company, we must meet certain additional financial requirements before we may declare dividends or repurchase shares and certain capital structure decisions may require stockholder approval which may limit our flexibility to manage our capital structure. We may not be able to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our ordinary shares in accordance with our announced intent, or at all. Under English law, we will only be able to declare dividends, make distributions, or repurchase shares (other than out of the proceeds of a new issuance of shares for that purpose) out of distributable profits. Distributable profits are a company accumulated, realized profits, to the extent that they have not been previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less its accumulated, realized losses, to the extent that they have not been previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made. In addition, as a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales, we may only make a distribution if the amount of our net assets is not less than the aggregate of our called up share capital and non distributable reserves and to the extent that the distribution does not reduce the amount of those assets to less than that aggregate. Following the Merger, we implemented a court approved reduction of our capital, which was completed on June 29, 2017, in order to create distributable profits to support the payment of possible future dividends or future share repurchases. Our articles of association permit us by ordinary resolution of the stockholders to declare dividends, provided that the directors have made a recommendation as to its amount. The dividend shall not exceed the amount recommended by the Board of Directors. The directors may also decide to pay interim dividends if it appears to them that the profits available for distribution justify the payment. When recommending or declaring payment of a dividend, the directors are required under English law to comply with their duties, including considering our future financial requirements. In addition, the Board of Directors determinations regarding dividends and share repurchases will depend on a variety of other factors, including our net income, cash flow generated from operations or other sources, liquidity position, and potential alternative uses of cash, such as acquisitions, as well as economic conditions and expected future financial results. Our ability to declare and pay future dividends and make future share repurchases will depend on our future financial performance, which in turn depends on the successful implementation of our strategy and on financial, competitive, regulatory, technical, and other factors, general economic conditions, demand and selling prices for our products and services, and other factors specific to our industry or specific projects, many of which are beyond our control. Therefore, our ability to generate cash depends on the performance of our operations and could be limited by decreases in our profitability or increases in costs, regulatory changes, capital expenditures, or debt servicing requirements. Any failure to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our ordinary shares could negatively impact our reputation, harm investor confidence in us, and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Our existing and future debt may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding debt. We have substantial existing debt. As of December 31, 2018 , after giving effect to the Merger, our total debt is $4.2 billion . We also have the capacity under our $25 billion credit facility, in addition to our bilateral facilities to incur substantial additional debt. Our level of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could make it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, distributions, and other general partnership purposes; 27 increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing to enable us to react to changes in our business; or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. Additionally, any failure to meet required payments on our debt or to comply with any covenants in the instruments governing our debt, could result in an event of default under the terms of those instruments. In the event of such default, the holders of such debt could elect to declare all the amounts outstanding under such instruments to be due and payable. The London Inter bank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) and certain other interest benchmarks may be subject to regulatory guidance and or reform that could cause interest rates under our current or future debt agreements to perform differently than in the past or cause other unanticipated consequences. The United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, has announced that it intends to stop encouraging or requiring banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021, and it is unclear if LIBOR will cease to exist or if new methods of calculating LIBOR will evolve. If LIBOR ceases to exist or if the methods of calculating LIBOR change from their current form, interest rates on our current or future debt obligations may be adversely affected. A downgrade in our debt rating could restrict our ability to access the capital markets. The terms of our financing are, in part, dependent on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies. We cannot provide assurance that any of our current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, capital structure, planned asset purchases or sales, near and long term production growth opportunities, market position, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix, customer and geographic diversification, and commodity price levels. A downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly to non investment grade levels, could limit our ability to access the debt capital markets or refinance our existing debt or cause us to refinance or issue debt with less favorable terms and conditions. Moreover, our revolving credit agreement includes an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. An increase in the level of our indebtedness and related interest costs may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing, as well as have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Uninsured claims and litigation against us, including intellectual property litigation, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We could be impacted by the outcome of pending litigation, as well as unexpected litigation or proceedings. We have insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims related to our products or operating environments in which our employees operate, to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available. However, our insurance policies are subject to exclusions, limitations, and other conditions and may not apply in all cases, for example where willful wrongdoing on our s alleged. Additionally, the nature and amount of that insurance may not be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. Additionally, in individual circumstances, certain proceedings or cases may also lead to our formal or informal exclusion from tenders or the revocation or loss of business licenses or permits. Our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance. In addition, the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs, and comp1nts we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs. The resolution of these claims could require us to enter into license agreements or develop alternative technologies. The development of these technologies or the payment of royalties under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. If a license were not available, or we are not able to develop alternative technologies, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 28 Currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We conduct operations around the world in many different currencies. Because a significant portion of our revenue is denominated in currencies other than our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, changes in exchange rates will produce fluctuations in our revenue, costs, and earnings, and may also affect the book value of our assets and liabilities and related equity. Although we do not hedge translation impacts on earnings, we do hedge transaction impacts on margins and earnings where the transaction is not in the functional currency of the business unit. Our efforts to minimize our currency exposure through such hedging transactions may not be successful depending on market and business conditions. Moreover, certain currencies in which the Company trades, specifically currencies in countries such as Angola and Nigeria, do not actively trade in the global foreign exchange markets and may subject us to increased foreign currency exposures. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We may incur significant Merger related costs. We have incurred and expect to incur additional non recurring direct and indirect costs associated with the Merger. In addition to the costs and expenses associated with the consummation of the Merger, we are also integrating processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies, and systems. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred relating to the Merger and continue to assess the magnitude of these costs, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration and implementation expenses. These costs and expenses could reduce the realization of efficiencies and strategic benefits we expect to achieve from the Merger, and the expected net benefit of the Merger may not be achieved in the near term or at all. Our acquisition and divestiture activities involve substantial risks. We have made and expect to continue to pursue acquisitions, dispositions, or other investments that may strategically fit our business and or growth objectives. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to locate suitable acquisitions, dispositions, or investments, or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Even if we do successfully execute such transactions, they may not result in anticipated benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If we are unable to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, we could fail to achieve anticipated synergies and cost savings, including any expected increases in revenues and operating results. We may not be able to successfully cause a buyer of a divested business to assume the liabilities of that business or, even if such liabilities are assumed, we may have difficulties enforcing our rights, contractual or otherwise, against the buyer. We may invest in companies or businesses that fail, causing a loss of all or part of our investment. In addition, if we determine that an other than temporary decline in the fair value exists for a company in which we have invested, we may have to write down that investment to its fair value and recognize the related write down as an investment loss. A failure of our IT infrastructure, including as a result of cyber attacks, could adversely impact our business and results of operations. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our IT systems. Accordingly, we rely upon the capacity, reliability, and security of our IT hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to changing needs. We have been subject to cyber attacks in the past, including phishing, malware, and ransomware, and although no such attack has had a material adverse effect on our business, this may not be the case with future attacks. Our systems may be vulnerable to damages from such attacks, as well as from natural disasters, failures in hardware or software, power fluctuations, unauthorized access to data and systems, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer information), human error, and other similar disruptions, and we cannot give assurance that any security measures we have implemented or may in the future implement will be sufficient to identify and prevent or mitigate such disruptions. We rely on third parties to support the operation of our IT hardware, software infrastructure, and cloud services, and in certain instances, utilize web based and software as a service applications. The security and privacy measures implemented by such third parties, as well as the measures implemented by any entities we acquire or with whom we do business, may not be sufficient to identify or prevent cyber attacks, and any such attacks may have a material adverse effect on our business. While our IT vendor agreements typically contain provisions that seek to eliminate or limit our exposure to liability for damages from a cyber attack, we cannot ensure such provisions will withstand legal challenges or cover all or any such damages. 29 Threats to our IT systems arise from numerous sources, not all of which are within our control, including fraud or malice on the part of third parties, accidental technological failure, electrical or telecommunication outages, failures of computer servers or other damage to our property or assets, outbreaks of hostilities, or terrorist acts. The failure of our IT systems or those of our vendors to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and result in numerous adverse consequences, including reduced effectiveness and efficiency of operations, inappropriate disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, reputational harm, increased overhead costs, and loss of important information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. Our insurance coverage may not cover all of the costs and liabilities we incur as the result of any disruptions or security breaches, and if our business continuity and or disaster recovery plans do not effectively and timely resolve issues resulting from a cyber attack, we may suffer material adverse effects on our business. We are subject to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy, data protection, and data security. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. We are subject to international data protection laws, such as the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, in the European Economic Area. The GDPR imposes several stringent requirements for controllers and processors of personal data which have increased our obligations, including, for example, by requiring more robust disclosures to individuals, notifications, in some cases, of data breaches to regulators and data subjects, and a record of processing and other policies and procedures to be maintained to adhere to the accountability principle. In addition, we are subject to the GDPR rules on transferring personal data outside of the EEA (including to the United States), and some of these rules are currently being challenged in the courts. Failure to comply with the requirements of GDPR and the local laws implementing or supplementing the GDPR could result in fines of up to 20,000,000 or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher, as well as other administrative penalties. We are likely to be required to expend significant capital and other resources to ensure ongoing compliance with the GDPR and other applicable data protection legislation, and we may be required to put in place additional control mechanisms which could be 1rous and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We may not realize the cost savings, synergies, and other benefits expected from the Merger. The combination of 2 independent companies is a complex, costly, and time consuming process. As a result, we will be required to continue to devote management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of Technip and FMC Technologies. The integration process may disrupt our businesses and, if ineffectively implemented, could preclude realization of the full benefits expected from the Merger. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating the operations of Technip and FMC Technologies or otherwise realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger could interrupt, and seriously harm the results of, our operations. In addition, the overall integration of Technip and FMC Technologies may result in unanticipated expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of client relationships, diversion of management attention, or other problems, and such problems could, if material, cause our stock price to decline. The difficulties of combining the operations of Technip and FMC Technologies include, but are not limited to, the following managing a significantly larger company; coordinating geographically separate organizations; the potential diversion of management focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and from operational matters; aligning and executing our strategy; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees; integrating 2 unique business cultures, the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; 30 coordinating distribution and marketing efforts; integrating IT, communications, and other systems; changes in applicable laws and regulations; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations; unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the Merger; and taking actions that may be required in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals. Many of these factors are at least partially outside our control and any 1 of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, and diversion of management time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, even if the operations of Technip and FMC Technologies are successfully integrated, we may not realize the full benefits of the Merger, including the synergies, cost savings, sales, or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. As a result, the combination of Technip and FMC Technologies may not result in the realization of the full benefits expected from the Merger. The IRS may not agree that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes and may seek to impose an excise tax on gains recognized by certain individuals. Although we are incorporated in the United Kingdom, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the IRS ) may assert that we should be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code ). For U.S. federal income tax purposes, a corporation (i) is generally considered a domestic corporation (or U.S. tax resident) if it is organized in the United States or of any state or political subdivision therein, and (ii) is generally considered a foreign corporation (or non U.S. tax resident) if it is not considered a domestic corporation. Because we are a U.K. incorporated entity, we would be considered a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non U.S. tax resident) under these rules. Section 7874 of the Code ( Section 7874 ) provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We do not believe this exception applies. However, the Section 7874 rules are complex and subject to detailed regulations, the application of which is uncertain in various respects. It is possible that the IRS will not agree with our position. Should the IRS successfully challenge our position, it is also possible that an excise tax under Section 4985 of the Code (the Section 4985 Excise Tax ) may be assessed against certain disqualified individuals (including former officers and directors of FMC Technologies, Inc.) on certain stock based compensation held thereby. We may, if we determine that it is appropriate, provide disqualified individuals with a payment with respect to the Section 4985 Excise Tax, so that, on a net after tax basis, they would be in the same position as if no such Section 4985 Excise Tax had been applied. In addition, there can be no assurance that there will not be a change in law or interpretation, including with retroactive effect, that might cause us to be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. U.S. tax laws and or guidance could affect our ability to engage in certain acquisition strategies and certain internal restructurings. Even if we are treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Section 7874, U.S. Treasury regulations, and other guidance promulgated thereunder may adversely affect our ability to engage in certain future acquisitions of U.S. businesses or to restructure the non U.S. members of our group. These limitations, if applicable, may affect the tax efficiencies that otherwise might be achieved in such potential future transactions or restructurings. In addition, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury have issued final and temporary regulations providing that, even if we are treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, certain intercompany debt instruments issued on or after April 4, 2016 will be treated as equity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, therefore limiting U.S. tax benefits and resulting in possible U.S. withholding taxes. Although recent guidance from the U.S. Treasury proposes deferring certain documentation requirements that would otherwise be imposed with respect to covered debt instruments, and further indicates that these rules generally are the subject of continuing study and may be further materially modified, the current regulations may adversely affect our future effective tax rate and could also 31 impact our ability to engage in future restructurings if such transactions cause an existing intercompany debt instrument to be treated as reissued for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are subject to the tax laws of numerous jurisdictions; challenges to the interpretation of, or future changes to, such laws could adversely affect us. We and our subsidiaries are subject to tax laws and regulations in the United Kingdom, the United States, France, and numerous other jurisdictions in which we and our subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations are inherently complex, and we are, and will continue to be, obligated to make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws and regulations to our operations and businesses. The interpretation and application of these laws and regulations could be challenged by the relevant governmental authorities, which could result in administrative or judicial procedures, actions, or sanctions, which could be material. In addition, the U.S. Congress, the U.K. Government, the European Union, the Organization for Economic Co operation and Development (the OECD ), and other government agencies in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. New tax initiatives, directives, and rules, such as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting initiative, and the European Union Anti Tax Avoidance Directives, may increase our tax burden and require additional compliance related expenditures. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows may be adversely affected. Further changes, including with retroactive effect, in the tax laws of the United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union, or other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could also adversely affect us. We may not qualify for benefits under tax treaties entered into between the United Kingdom and other countries. We operate in a manner such that we believe we are eligible for benefits under tax treaties between the United Kingdom and other countries. However, our ability to qualify for such benefits will depend on whether we are treated as a U.K. tax resident, the requirements contained in each treaty and applicable domestic laws, on the facts and circumstances surrounding our operations and management, and on the relevant interpretation of the tax authorities and courts. For example, because of the anticipated withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union ( Brexit ), we may lose some or all of the benefits of tax treaties between the United States and the remaining members of the European Union, and face higher tax liabilities, which may be significant. Another example is the Multilateral Convention to Implement Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (the MLI ), which entered into force for participating jurisdictions on July 1, 2018. The MLI recommends that countries adopt a limitation on benefit rule and or a principle purposes test rule with regards to their tax treaties. The scope and interpretation of these rules as adopted pursuant to the MLI are presently under development, but the application of either rule might deny us tax treaty benefits that were previously available. The failure by us or our subsidiaries to qualify for benefits under tax treaties entered into between the United Kingdom and other countries could result in adverse tax consequences to us (including an increased tax burden and increased filing obligations) and could result in certain tax consequences of owning and disposing of our shares. We intend to be treated exclusively as a resident of the United Kingdom for tax purposes, but French or other tax authorities may seek to treat us as a tax resident of another jurisdiction. We are incorporated in the United Kingdom. English law currently provides that we will be regarded as a U.K. resident for tax purposes from incorporation and shall remain so unless (i) we are concurrently a resident in another jurisdiction (applying the tax residence rules of that jurisdiction) that has a double tax treaty with the United Kingdom and (ii) there is a tiebreaker provision in that tax treaty which allocates exclusive residence to that other jurisdiction. In this regard, we have a permanent establishment in France to satisfy certain French tax requirements imposed by the French Tax Code with respect to the Merger. Although it is intended that we will be treated as having our exclusive place of tax residence in the United Kingdom, the French tax authorities may claim that we are a tax resident of France if we were to fail to maintain our place of effective management in the United Kingdom. Any such claim would be settled between the French and U.K. tax authorities pursuant to the mutual assistance procedure provided for by the tax treaty concluded between France and the United Kingdom. There is no assurance that these authorities would reach an agreement that we will remain exclusively a U.K. tax resident; a determination which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects. A failure to maintain exclusive tax residency in the United Kingdom could result in adverse tax 32 consequences to us and our subsidiaries and could result in certain adverse changes in the tax consequences of owning and disposing of our shares. The Company has identified material weaknesses relating to internal control over financial reporting. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if 1 or more additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to further restate our financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Management identified material weaknesses in the Company internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018 as described in I, Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of the material weaknesses, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2018. In addition, as a result of these material weaknesses, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded that, as of December 31, 2018, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. Until these material weaknesses are remediated, they could lead to errors in our financial results and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if 1 or more additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, restrict our ability to access the capital markets, require significant resources to correct the weaknesses or deficiencies, subject us to fines, penalties or judgments, harm our reputation or otherwise cause a decline in investor confidence and in the market price of our stock. Additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated under Section 404. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to, among other things, a decline in our stock price. We can give no assurances that the measures we have taken to date, or any future measures we may take, will fully remediate the material weaknesses identified or that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair and accurate presentation of our financial statements included in our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS N1 33 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES
