CIK: 1687187
Company Name: RAMACO RESOURCES INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-03-19
Accession Number: 0001437749-19-005299


Item 1 Business Ramaco Resources, Inc. is a Delaware corporation formed in October 2016. Our principal corporate offices are located in Lexington, Kentucky. We completed our initial public offering ( IPO ) on February 8, 2017 and our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol METC. As used herein, Ramaco Resources, we, our, and similar terms include Ramaco Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. General We are an operator and developer of high quality, low cost metallurgical coal in southern West Virginia, southwestern Virginia, and southwestern Pennsylvania. We are a pure play metallurgical coal company with 248 million tons of high quality metallurgical coal reserves and advantaged geology leading to lower cash costs. Our near term development portfolio includes four key assets Elk Creek, Berwind, RAM Mine and Knox Creek. We commenced initial production of metallurgical coal at our Elk Creek mining complex in late December 2016. During 2017, we developed and opened 2 deep mines and a surface mine at Elk Creek. During 2018, we opened 1 additional deep mine at Elk Creek. Additionally, we constructed and activated the Elk Creek preparation plant and rail load out facility in late October 2017. We also began development mining at our Berwind property in late 2017 and continued our purchased coal program which augments our sales. Our aggregate production for 2018 was approximately 18 million clean tons of coal. In 2017, we sold approximately 0.6 million tons of coal, including approximately 0.2 million tons of purchased coal. In 2018, we sold approximately 21 million tons of coal, including approximately 0.4 million tons of purchased coal. On February 8, 2017, we completed the IPO of our common stock pursuant to a registration statement on Form S 1 (File 333 215363), as amended and declared effective by the SEC on February 2, 2017. Pursuant to the registration statement, we registered the sale of 6,000,000 shares of $0.01 par value common stock, which included 3,800,000 shares of common stock sold by the Company and 2,200,000 shares of common stock sold by the selling stockholders. Proceeds of our IPO, based on the public offering price of $1350 per share, were approximately $513 million. After subtracting underwriting discounts and commissions of $36 million, and after deducting discounts and offering expenses paid directly by us, we received net proceeds of approximately $437 million. We used $10.7 million of the net proceeds to repay indebtedness owed to Ramaco Coal, LLC, an affiliated entity. The remaining proceeds of the IPO were used for general corporate purposes, including development of the Elk Creek mining complex. All units of our then outstanding convertible Series A preferred units automatically converted into an aggregate of 1276 million shares of common stock at the time of the IPO. Metallurgical Coal Industry Metallurgical coal is used to make metallurgical coke, a key ingredient in the steel making process. Coke is used as a fuel and a reducing agent in a blast furnace during the smelting of iron ore into iron before it is converted into steel. Demand for coking coal in the U.S. is limited by the number of coke batteries. Annual U.S. metallurgical coal consumption is approximately 16 to 21 million tons per year. Any supply in excess of what can be consumed domestically is exported to buyers in North America, Africa, Europe, South America and Asia. U.S. metallurgical coal production increased from 74 million tons in 2017 to 82 million tons in 2018, down from a peak of 91 million tons in 2011 U.S. metallurgical coal is primarily produced from underground mines located in the Appalachia coal regions. Metallurgical coal is transported by truck, rail (primarily Norfolk Southern or CSX), and barge to coke batteries located in the U.S. Metallurgical coal contracts in the U.S. frequently have 1 year terms, although some buyers contract for shorter or longer terms. Domestic prices are historically not as volatile as international benchmark or indexed prices. Due to the modest but stable market for metallurgical coal consumption in the U.S., any supply in excess of what can be consumed domestically is exported. The United States is the second largest seaborne exporter of metallurgical coal, behind Australia and ahead of Canada. The volume of metallurgical coal trading on the seaborne market (including Mongolian exports) was estimated to be 329 million metric tons in 2018, up 6% from 311 million metric tons in 2017. Australia is the dominant seaborne supplier and is expected to have accounted for approximately 54% of 2018 volumes, followed by the U.S. with approximately 17% of supply and Canada with approximately 11% of supply. U.S. metallurgical coal exports totaled 57 million tons in 2017 and 63 million tons in 2018. The United States has a geographic advantage over Australia and Canada in serving customers in the Atlantic Basin, primarily Europe and Brazil. 5 Table of Contents The metallurgical coal benchmark, which was traditionally negotiated quarterly between key Australian producers and key Japanese steel mills, has been replaced by utilizing a series of indices from a number of independent sources. Contracted volumes have terms that vary in duration from spot to 1 year, rarely exceeding 1 year. In some cases, indices are used at the point that the coal changes hands. In other cases, an average over time may be utilized. While the term benchmark is still utilized, it too is determined based on index values, typically for the preceding 3 months. Seaborne metallurgical coal prices in 2016, 2017 and 2018 have seen significant volatility. In early 2016, a new Chinese policy that limited domestic coal miners to 276 work days a year resulted in a significant decrease in Chinese production and a resulting increase in seaborne demand, which increased prices from well below $100 per metric ton ( MT ) in early 2016 to over $300 per MT. A reversal of this policy in late 2016 caused prices to fall to the mid $150s per MT. A subsequent cycl1 that hit the center of metallurgical coal production and supply chain operations in Australia in early 2017 caused prices to briefly spike to near $300 per MT. Since mid 2017, metallurgical prices have remained strong, averaging just over $200 per MT. This is in part because the Chinese workday restrictions were replaced by a more permanent solution targeting smaller, less efficient, and generally higher cost mines for closure. Sxcoal noted that Chinese domestic met coal production was roughly flat in 2017, while falling 2% in 2018, despite strong pricing. As of March 7, 2019, metallurgical coal pricing was $215 per MT. U.S. metallurgical coal producers primarily sell coal to U.S. customers under calendar year contracts where both prices and volumes are fixed in the third or fourth quarter for the following calendar year. Export sales, on the other hand, are often d1 on a shorter term (spot, quarterly or half year) basis. Sales into the seaborne market tend to last for 1 year and have set volumes that reprice with the market by utilizing indexes. Metallurgical coals are generally classified as high, medium or low volatile. Volatiles are products, other than water, that are released as gas or vapor when coal is burned. Carbon is what remains when the volatiles are released. Our Strategy Our business strategy is to increase stockholder value through sustained earnings growth and cash flow generation by Develop ing and Operat ing Our Metallurgical Coal Properties . We have a 248 million ton reserve base of high quality metallurgical coal and four long lived projects under development. Our initial project, Elk Creek, commenced production in late December 2016 and produced 548 thousand clean tons of metallurgical coal during 2017 and 18 million clean tons of metallurgical coal during 2018. We also initiated development mining at our Berwind mine. We plan to operate these mines at their optimum productivities and complete development of our remaining projects. Overall, we plan to grow production to more than 4.0 million clean tons of metallurgical coal over the next 3 to four years depending on the rate at which we are able to deploy capital. We may make acquisitions of reserves or infrastructure that continue our focus on advantaged geology and lower costs. Enhancing Coal Purchase Opportunities. During 2018, we purchased approximately 0.4 million clean ton equivalents from third party producers. After washing at 1 of our coal preparation plants, we sold this tonnage to customers for our own account. Purchased coal is complementary from a blending standpoint with our produced coals or it may also be sold as an independent product. Being a Low Cost U.S. Producer of Metallurgical Coal . Our reserve base presents advantaged geologic characteristics such as relatively thick coal seams at the deep mines, a low effective mining ratio at the surface mines, and desirable metallurgical coal quality. Furthermore, a majority of the coal seams being developed are accessible near, or above, drainage, thereby reducing up front development costs. These characteristics contribute to a production profile that we believe will have a cash cost of production that is significantly below most U.S. metallurgical coal producers. Maintain ing a conservative capital structure and prudently manag ing the business for the long term. We are committed to maintaining a conservative capital structure with what we believe to be a reasonable amount of debt that will afford us the financial flexibility to execute our business strategies on an ongoing basis. Demonstrating Excellence in Safety and Environmental Stewardship. We are committed to complying with both regulatory and our own high standards for environmental and employee health and safety. 6 Table of Contents Our Projects Our properties are primarily located in southern West Virginia, southwestern Virginia, and southwestern Pennsylvania. The following map shows the location of our mining complexes and projects Elk Creek Mining Complex Our Elk Creek mining complex in southern West Virginia began production in late December 2016. The Elk Creek property consists of approximately 20,552 acres of controlled mineral and contains 24 seams that we believe can be economically mineable. Nearly all our seams contain high quality, high volatile metallurgical coal, which are accessible at or above drainage. Additionally, almost all of this coal is high fluidity, which is an important factor in metallurgical coal. We control the majority of the coal and related mining rights within the existing permitted areas and our current mine plans, as well as the surface for our surface facilities, through leases and subleases from Ramaco Coal, LLC. We estimate that the Elk Creek mining complex contains reserves capable of yielding approximately 96 million tons of clean saleable metallurgical coal. We currently market most of the coal produced from the Elk Creek mining complex as a blended high volatile A B composite. More recently we have chosen to segregate our high volatile A coals, so that they can be sold at a premium. Our market for Elk Creek production is principally North American coke and steel producers. We also market our coal to European, South American and Indian customers, and occasionally to coal traders and brokers for use in filling orders for their blended products. Additionally, we seek to market a portion of our coal in the specialty coal markets. In 2017, we completed construction of a 700 raw ton per hour preparation plant at our Elk Creek mining complex. The plant has a large diameter (48 ) heavy media cycl1, dual stage spiral concentrators, froth flotation, horizontal vibratory and screen bowl centrifuges. We believe the preparation plant design and capacity will adequately support approximately 5.4 million raw tons of production or, approximately 22 million clean saleable tons (assuming a 41% plant yield). The existing and proposed Elk Creek mines are all within six miles of the preparation plant. We also completed construction of the Elk Creek rail load out in 2017. The rail load out is a single stage certified batch weigh system capable of loading 4,000 tons per hour and a full 150 car unit train in under four hours. The load out facility is served by the CSX railroad. We also have the ability to develop a rail loading facility on the Norfolk Southern railroad, which would facilitate dual rail service. We have not undertaken any steps for development of a Norfolk Southern rail facility at this time. 7 Table of Contents The existing impoundment at Elk Creek is planned to be converted to a combined refuse facility in the future. The combined capacity is expected to provide approximately 20 years of disposal life for our operations. We completed construction of our plate presses to allow for dewatering material currently being pumped to our impoundment. This equipment will be utilized for a portion of the time in the near term and will ultimately process all waste material for placement in the combined refuse facility. On November 5, 2018, 1 of our 3 raw coal storage silos that feed our Elk Creek plant experienced a partial structural failure. The prep plant at our Elk Creek mining complex was idled for approximately 3 weeks due to the partial structural failure of the silo. The silo was subsequently demolished and will not be replaced. In late November 2018, we completed a temporary conveying system at our Elk Creek mining complex. The temporary conveying system allowed us to bypass the damaged raw coal storage silo, which has since been demolished, and allowed for the immediate processing and shipping of coal at approximately 80% of the entire plant capacity, throughout December 2018. In February 2019, we completed the fabrication of a higher capacity bypass system to provide a secondary conveyance system, which operates at greater than 80% of processing capacity with increased reliability compared to the initial bypass system. We anticipate completion of rehabilitation work to the 2 remaining silos in the second quarter of 2019 at which point we expect the prep plant to return to full processing capacity. Our insurance carrier has disputed our claim for coverage based on certain exclusions to the applicable policy. We are still evaluating whether we will be fully insured against all losses or liabilities that could arise from this incident. The Alma mine, our first mine at Elk Creek commenced production in late December 2016. The Eagle deep mine was completed and began production in mid 2017. 2 additional mines, the #1 Surface and Highwall mine and the #2 Gas mine, were developed in the fourth quarter of 2017. All of our existing mines at Elk Creek are now operating at their full anticipated run rate. A large portion of the controlled reserves are permitted through existing, issued permits. We currently have 3 mining permits that have not been activated and are actively pursuing multiple new permits. Berwind Our Berwind coal property sits on the border of West Virginia and Virginia and is well positi1d to fill the anticipated market for low volatile coals. Once we complete development mining, we expect to experience above average seam height. Development of our Berwind mining complex began in late 2017 with developmental production commencing in November 2017. Development mining will occur in the thinner Pocahontas No. 3 seam and advance to a point where that seam overlaps with the thicker Pocahontas No. 4 seam, lying approximately 65 feet above the Pocahontas No. 3 seam. We plan to drive a slope into the Pocahontas No. 4 seam, which will become the primary production seam. During 2018, we produced 0.1 million clean tons from the Berwind mine, and we expect to produce between 0.2 million and 0.3 million clean tons in 2019 from the Berwind mine. We estimate that the mine life for the Berwind mine is more than 20 years. The Berwind property consists of approximately 31,200 acres of controlled mineral and contains a large area of Squire Jim seam coal deposits. The Squire Jim seam of coal is the lowest known coal seam on the geologic column in this region, and due to depth of cover has never been significantly explored. We have outcrop access to this seam at the top of an anticline. We have the necessary permits for the Berwind mine for our current and budgeted operations. It anticipated that a permit for our Squire Jim seam room and pillar underground mine may be issued during 2019. At this point, we do not anticipate activating this mining permit. Knox Creek In July 2016, we acquired a preparation plant and coal loading facility along with a refuse impoundment, an idle mine and surface and mineral properties at our Knox Creek operations. The Tiller Mine slope face up and shafts are idle. We have recently explored the Tiller mine, which could provide access via our inter seam slope to the Jawb1 seam, which is the coal seam above the Tiller seam. We are continuing to evaluate the feasibility of a potential high volatile A metallurgical deep mine in the Jawb1 seam of coal. We are currently developing a mine plan for the Jawb1 seam, as well as seeking permit modifications that would allow us to mine the Jawb1 seam from existing permits. The Knox Creek property consists of approximately 61,343 acres of controlled mineral. In 2016, we began the purchasing and processing of coal from third parties in the Knox Creek preparation plant for sale for our own account. We also process and load coal trucked from our Berwind mine at this facility. The Knox Creek facility is comprised of a 650 tons per hour preparation plant and loadout on site. Refuse is disposed of in an existing impoundment. Rail service is provided by Norfolk Southern. During 2017 we purchased a number of leases near Knox Creek from various subsidiaries of The Brink Company and we leased additional reserves from a third party that abut both the Brink properties and our Knox Creek reserves. 2 third party producers sublease portions of these properties from us and their operations provide royalty income, as well as coal production, that could be purchased for resale to customers. We anticipate entering into additional leases and subleases of our reserves at Knox Creek with third parties. 8 Table of Contents RAM Mine Our RAM Mine property is located in southwestern Pennsylvania, consists of approximately 1,567 acres of controlled mineral and is scheduled for initial production in 2021 Production of high volatile coal from the Pittsburgh seam is planned from a single continuous miner room and pillar underground operation. The Pittsburgh seam, in close proximity to Pittsburgh area coke plants, has historically been a key feedstock for these coke plants. Operation of our RAM Mine coal reserve may require access to a newly constructed preparation plant and loading facility, third party processing, or direct shipment of raw coal product. Upon commencement of mining, we anticipate that the mine will produce at an annualized rate of between 300 and 500 thousand tons with an estimated 10 year mining life. We expect that coal from the RAM Mine coal reserve will be transported to our customers by highway trucks, rail cars or by barge on river systems. In addition to close proximity to river barge facilities, our RAM Mine operations are also near Norfolk Southern rail access. The RAM Mine coal reserve is not yet permitted, although we have applied for a permit and it is in the final phase of the permit application process. We expect this permit to be issued in 2019. Customers and Contracts Coal prices differ substantially by region and are impacted by many factors including the overall economy, demand for steel, demand for electricity, location, market, quality and type of coal, mine operation costs and the cost of customer alternatives. The major factors influencing our business are the global economy and demand for steel. We market to U.S. based blast furnace steel mills and U.S. based coke plants, in addition to international markets mostly in Europe, South America and Asia. When at full production, we also expect to market approximately 120,000 clean tons per year to specialty coal customers, such as foundry coke, activated carbon products, and specialty metal producers, for premium prices. We also plan to market up to 10% of our total production, virtually all from our surface mines, as thermal coal for sale to domestic utilities or as a specialty coal. We sold 21 million tons of coal during 2018. Of this, 65% was sold to North American markets and 35% was sold into export markets. Principally, our export market sales were made to Europe. Our focus in 2018 was introducing the quality of our coal for use in coke ovens, which facilitated our participation at market pricing in the metallurgical coal domestic contracting season for shipments in 2019. During 2018, sales to five customers accounted for approximately 63% of total revenue, with no single customer accounting for more than 15% of total revenue. The total balance due from these customers at December 31, 2018 was approximately 72% of total accounts receivable. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue during this period. If a major customer decided to stop purchasing coal from us or significantly reduced its purchases from us, revenue could decline and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Safety Philosophy We have a comprehensive health and safety program based on the core belief that all accidents and occupational illnesses are preventable. We believe that Business excellence is achieved through the pursuit of safer and more productive work practices. Any task that cannot be performed safely should not be performed. Working safely is a requirement of our employees. Controlling the work environment is important, but human behavior within the work environment is paramount. Safety starts with individual decision making all employees must assume a share of responsibility for acts within their control that pose a risk of injury to themselves or fellow workers. All levels of the organization must be proactive in implementing safety processes that promote a safe and healthy work environment. Consequently, we are committed to providing a safe work environment; providing our employees with proper training and equipment; and implementing safety and health rules, policies and programs that foster safety excellence. 9 Table of Contents As we increase our work force, our safety program will include a focus on the following Hiring the Right Workers . We have established a hiring program that includes significant pre employment screening and reference checks. Safety Incentives . We have a compensation system which encourages and rewards excellent safety performance. Communication . We conduct regular safety meetings with the frequent involvement of senior management to establish the appropriate t1 at the top. Drug and Alcohol Testing . We require pre employment drug screening as well as regular random drug testing that exceeds regulatory requirements. Continuous Improvement Programs . We track key safety performance metrics, including accident rates, violation types and frequencies. We have developed specific targets in these areas and we measure performance against these targets. Specific action plans have been developed for targeted improvement in areas where performance falls below our expectations. Training . Our training program includes comprehensive new employee orientation and training, annual refresher training and task training comp1nts. These training modules are designed to reinforce our high safety expectations. Work rules and procedures are a key element of this training. Accident Investigation . We have implemented a structured accident investigation procedure that identifies root causes of accidents as well as actions necessary to prevent reoccurrence. We focus on near misses and close calls as a means of attempting to prevent more serious accidents from occurring. Safety Audits . We conduct periodic safety audits that will include work place examinations, including observation of workers at work, as well as safety program reviews. Both internal and external resources are utilized to conduct these audits. Employee Performance Improvement . A key element of our safety program is the recognition that safe work practices are a requirement of employment. We have implemented a program which identifies employee performance which is below expectations and develop specific action plans for improvement. Employee Involvement . We recognize that the key to excellent safety is employee involvement and engagement. We foster direct employee involvement in a number of ways including audit participation, accident investigations, as training resources and through solicitation of ideas in small group meetings and through anonymous workplace observation suggestion boxes. Positive Reinforcement . We recognize that establishing safety as a core belief is paramount to our safety performance. As a result, we look for opportunities to celebrate accomplishments and to build pride in our operational safety and performance. Trade Names, Trademarks and Patents We do not have any registered trademarks or trade names for our products, services or subsidiaries, and we do not believe that any trademark or trade name is material to our business. However, the names of the seams in which we have coal reserves, and attributes thereof, are widely recognized in the metallurgical coal market. Competition Our principal domestic competitors include Blackhawk Mining, LLC, Coronado Global Resources, Inc., Corsa Coal Corp, Arch Coal, Inc., Contura Energy, Inc., Warrior Met Coal, Inc., and Mission Coal, LLC. We also compete in international markets directly with domestic companies and with companies that produce coal from 1 or more foreign countries, such as Australia, Canada, Colombia and South Africa. Many of these coal producers are larger than we are and have greater financial resources and larger reserve bases than we do. Suppliers Supplies used in our business include petroleum based fuels, explosives, tires, conveyance structure, ventilation supplies, lubricants and other raw materials as well as spare parts and other consumables used in the mining process. We use third party suppliers for a significant portion of our equipment rebuilds and repairs, drilling services and construction. We believe adequate substitute suppliers and contractors are available and we are not dependent on any 1 supplier or contractor. We continually seek to develop relationships with suppliers and contractors that focus on reducing our costs while improving quality and service. 10 Table of Contents Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations, such as those relating to matters such as permitting and licensing, employee health and safety, reclamation and restoration of mining properties, water discharges, air emissions, plant and wildlife protection, the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes, remediation of contaminants, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects of mining on surface water and groundwater conditions. These environmental laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, SMCRA with respect to coal mining activities and ancillary activities; the Clean Air Act ( CAA ) with respect to air emissions; the Clean Water Act ( CWA ) with respect to water discharges and the permitting of key operational infrastructure such as impoundments; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ) with respect to solid and hazardous waste management and disposal, as well as the regulation of underground storage tanks; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ( CERCLA or Superfund ) with respect to releases, threatened releases and remediation of hazardous substances; the Endangered Species Act of 1973 ( ESA ) with respect to threatened and endangered species; and the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 ( NEPA ) with respect to the evaluation of environmental impacts related to any federally issued permit or license. Many of these federal laws have state and local counterparts which also impose requirements and potential liability on our operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations may be costly and time consuming and may delay commencement, continuation or expansion of exploration or production at our facilities. They may also depress demand for our products by imposing more stringent requirements and limits on our customers operations. Moreover, these laws are constantly evolving and are becoming increasingly complex and stringent over time. These laws and regulations, particularly new legislative or administrative proposals, or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. Individually and collectively, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our operations directly and or indirectly, through our customers inability to use our products. Certain implementing regulations for these environmental laws are undergoing revision or have not yet been promulgated. As a result, we cannot always determine the ultimate impact of complying with existing laws and regulations. Due in part to these extensive and comprehensive regulatory requirements and ever changing interpretations of these requirements, violations of these laws can occur from time to time in our industry and also in our operations. Expenditures relating to environmental compliance are a major cost consideration for our operations and safety and compliance is a significant factor in mine design, both to meet regulatory requirements and to minimize long term environmental liabilities. To the extent that these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, operating results will be reduced. In addition, our customers are subject to extensive regulation regarding the environmental impacts associated with the combustion or other use of coal, which may affect demand for our coal. Changes in applicable laws or the adoption of new laws relating to energy production, greenhouse gas ( GHG ) emissions and other emissions from use of coal products may cause coal to become a less attractive source of energy, which may adversely affect our mining operations, the cost structure and, the demand for coal. For example, if the GHG emissions rates or caps adopted under the CPP or proposed under its replacement are upheld or a tax on carbon is imposed, the market share of coal as fuel used to generate electricity would be expected to decrease. We believe that our competitors with operations in the United States are confronted by substantially similar conditions. However, foreign producers and operators may not be subject to similar requirements and may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in or be subject to similar limitations on their operations. As a result, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with United States environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our competitive position with regard to those foreign competitors. The specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities, applicable legislation and its production methods. Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act SMCRA establishes operational, reclamation and closure standards for our mining operations and requires that comprehensive environmental protection and reclamation standards be met during the course of and following completion of mining activities. SMCRA also stipulates compliance with many other major environmental statutes, including the CAA, the CWA, the ESA, RCRA and CERCLA. Permits for all mining operations must be obtained from the United States Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement ( OSMRE ) or, where state regulatory agencies have adopted federally approved state programs under SMCRA, the appropriate state regulatory authority. Our operations are located in states which have achieved primary jurisdiction for enforcement of SMCRA through approved state programs. SMCRA imposes a complex set of requirements covering all facets of coal mining. SMCRA regulations govern, among other things, coal prospecting, mine plan development, topsoil or growth medium removal and replacement, disposal of excess spoil and coal refuse, protection of the hydrologic balance, and suitable post mining land uses. 11 Table of Contents From time to time, OSMRE will also update its mining regulations under SMCRA. For example, in December 2016, OSMRE finalized a new version of the Stream Protection Rule which was to become effective in January 2017. The rule would have impacted both surface and underground mining operations, as it would have imposed stricter guidelines on conducting coal mining operations, and would have required more extensive baseline data on hydrology, geology and aquatic biology in permit applications. The rule also required the collection of increased pre mining data about the site of the proposed mining operation and adjacent areas to establish a baseline for evaluation of the impacts of mining and the effectiveness of reclamation associated with returning streams to pre mining conditions. However, in February 2017, both the House and Senate passed a resolution disapproving of the Stream Protection Rule pursuant to the Congressional Review Act ( CRA ). President Trump signed the resolution on February 16, 2017 and, pursuant to the CRA, the Stream Protection Rule shall have no force or effect and cannot be replaced by a similar rule absent future legislation. On November 17, 2017, OSMRE published a Federal Register notice that removed the text of the Stream Protection Rule from the Code of Federal Regulations. Whether Congress will enact future legislation to require a new Stream Protection Rule remains uncertain. The existing rules, or other new SMCRA regulations, could result in additional material costs, obligations and restrictions upon our operations. Aband1d Mine Lands Fund SMCRA also imposes a reclamation fee on all current mining operations, the proceeds of which are deposited in the AML Fund, which is used to restore unreclaimed and aband1d mine lands mined before 1977. The current per ton fee is $0.28 per ton for surface mined coal and $0.12 per ton for underground mined coal. These fees are currently scheduled to be in effect until September 30, 2021 Estimates of our total reclamation and mine closing liabilities are based upon permit requirements and our experience related to similar activities. If these accruals are insufficient or our liability in a particular year is greater than currently anticipated, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Mining Permits and Approvals Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations. We are required to prepare and present to federal, state, and local authorities data detailing the effect or impact that any proposed exploration project for production of coal may have upon the environment, the public and our employees. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex, change frequently, and may be subject to discretionary interpretations by regulators. The requirements imposed by these permits and associated regulations can be costly and time consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration, production or expansion at our operations. The governing laws, rules, and regulations authorize substantial fines and penalties, including revocation or suspension of mining permits under some circumstances. M1tary sanctions and, in certain circumstances, even criminal sanctions may be imposed for failure to comply with these laws. Applications for permits and permit renewals at our mining operations are also subject to public comment and potential legal challenges from third parties seeking to prevent a permit from being issued, or to overturn the applicable agency grant of the permit. Should our permitting efforts become subject to such challenges, they could delay commencement, continuation or expansion of our mining operations. For example, non governmental organizations and certain private individuals have submitted comments to the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection asserting that there are deficiencies in our permit application for RAM No. 1 mine. The permit application is administratively complete but has not yet received approval. If such comments lead to a formal challenge to the issuance of these permits, the permits may not be issued in a timely fashion, may involve requirements which restrict our ability to conduct our mining operations or to do so profitably, or may not be issued at all. Any delays, denials, or revocation of these or other similar permits we need to operate could reduce our production and materially adversely impact our cash flow and results of our operations. In order to obtain mining permits and approvals from state regulatory authorities, mine operators must also submit a reclamation plan for restoring the mined property to its prior condition, productive use or other permitted condition. The conditions of certain permits also require that we obtain surface owner consent if the surface estate has been split from the mineral estate. This requires us to negotiate with third parties for surface access that overlies coal we acquired or intend to acquire. These negotiations can be costly and time consuming, lasting years in some instances, which can create additional delays in the permitting process. If we cannot successfully negotiate for land access, we could be denied a permit to mine coal we already own. Finally, we typically submit necessary mining permit applications several months, or even years, before we anticipate mining a new area. However, we cannot control the pace at which the government issues permits needed for new or ongoing operations. For example, the process of obtaining CWA permits can be particularly time consuming and subject to delays and denials. The EPA also has the authority to veto permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (the "Corps") under the CWA Section 404 program that prohibits the discharge of dredged or fill material into regulated waters without a permit. Even after we obtain the permits that we need to operate, many of the permits must be periodically renewed, or may require modification. There is some risk that not all existing permits will be approved for renewal, or that existing permits will be approved for renewal only upon terms that restrict or limit our operations in ways that may be material. 12 Table of Contents Financial Assurance Federal and state laws require a mine operator to secure the performance of its reclamation and lease obligations under SMCRA through the use of surety bonds or other approved forms of financial security for payment of certain long term obligations, including mine closure or reclamation costs. The changes in the market for coal used to generate electricity in recent years have led to bankruptcies involving prominent coal producers. Several of these companies relied on self bonding to guarantee their responsibilities under the SMCRA permits including for reclamation. In response to these bankruptcies, OSMRE issued a Policy Advisory in August 2016 to state agencies that are authorized under the SMCRA to implement the act in their states. Certain states, including Virginia, had previously announced that it would no longer accept self bonding to secure reclamation obligations under the state mining laws. This Policy Advisory is intended to discourage authorized states from approving self bonding arrangements and may lead to increased demand for other forms of financial assurance, which may strain capacity for those instruments and increase our costs of obtaining and maintaining the amounts of financial assurance needed for our operations. In addition, OSMRE announced in August 2016 that it would initiate a rulemaking under SMCRA to revise the requirements for self bonding. Individually and collectively, these revised various financial assurance requirements may increase the amount of financial assurance needed and limit the types of acceptable instruments, straining the capacity of the surety markets to meet demand. This may delay the timing for and increase the costs of obtaining the required financial assurance. We use surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. Federal and state laws require us to obtain surety bonds to secure payment of certain long term obligations including mine closure or reclamation costs and other miscellaneous obligations. The bonds are renewable on a yearly basis. Surety bond rates have increased in recent years and the market terms of such bonds have generally become less favorable. Sureties typically require coal producers to post collateral, often having a value equal to 40% or more of the face amount of the bond. As a result, we may be required to provide collateral, letters of credit or other assurances of payment in order to obtain the necessary types and amounts of financial assurance. Under our surety bonding program, we are not currently required to post any letters of credit or other collateral to secure the surety bonds; obtaining letters of credit in lieu of surety bonds could result in a significant cost increase. Moreover, the need to obtain letters of credit may also reduce amounts that we can borrow under any senior secured credit facility for other purposes. If, in the future, we are unable to secure surety bonds for these obligations and are forced to secure letters of credit indefinitely or obtain some other form of financial assurance at too high of a cost, our profitability may be negatively affected. We intend to maintain a credit profile that eliminates the need to post collateral for our surety bonds. N1theless, our surety has the right to demand additional collateral at its discretion. Some international customers require new suppliers to post performance guarantees during the initial stages of qualifying to become a long term supplier. To date we have not had to provide a performance guarantee, but it is possible that such a guarantee could be required during 2019. Mine Safety and Health The Mine Act and the MINER Act, and regulations issued under these federal statutes, impose stringent health and safety standards on mining operations. The regulations that have been adopted under the Mine Act and the MINER Act are comprehensive and affect numerous aspects of mining operations, including training of mine personnel, mining procedures, roof control, ventilation, blasting, use and maintenance of mining equipment, dust and noise control, communications, emergency response procedures, and other matters. MSHA regularly inspects mines to ensure compliance with regulations promulgated under the Mine Act and MINER Act. From time to time MSHA will also publish new regulations imposing additional requirements and costs on our operations. For example, MSHA implemented a rule in August 2014 to lower miners exposure to respirable coal mine dust. The rule requires shift dust to be monitored and reduces the respirable dust standard for designated occupants and miners. MSHA also finalized a new rule in January 2015 on proximity detection systems for continuous mining machines, which requires underground coal mine operators to equip continuous mining machines, except full face continuous mining machines, with proximity detection systems. Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Virginia all have similar programs for mine safety and health regulation and enforcement. The various requirements mandated by federal and state statutes, rules, and regulations place restrictions on our methods of operation and result in fees and civil penalties for violations of such requirements or criminal liability for the knowing violation of such standards, significantly impacting operating costs and productivity. The regulations enacted under the Mine Act and MINER Act as well as under similar state acts are routinely expanded or made more stringent, raising compliance costs and increasing potential liability. Our compliance with current or future mine health and safety regulations could increase our mining costs. At this time, it is not possible to predict the full effect that new or proposed statutes, regulations and policies will have on our operating costs, but any expansion of existing regulations, or making such regulations more stringent may have a negative impact on the profitability of our operations. If we were to be found in violation of mine safety and health regulations, we could face penalties or restrictions that may materially and adversely impact our operations, financial results and liquidity. In addition, government inspectors have the authority to issue orders to shut down our operations based on safety considerations under certain circumstances, such as imminent dangers, accidents, failures to abate violations, and unwarrantable failures to comply with mandatory safety standards. If an incident were to occur at 1 of our operations, it could be shut down for an extended period of time, and our reputation with prospective customers could be materially damaged. Moreover, if 1 of our operations is issued a notice of pattern of violations, then MSHA can issue an order withdrawing the miners from the area affected by any enforcement action during each subsequent significant and substantial ( S&S ) citation until the S&S citation or order is abated. In 2013 MSHA modified the pattern of violations regulation, allowing, among other things, the use of non final citations and orders in determining whether a pattern of violations exists at a mine. 13 Table of Contents Workers Compensation and Black Lung We are insured for workers compensation benefits for work related injuries that occur within our United States operations. We retain first dollar coverage for all of our subsidiaries and are insured for the statutory limits. Workers compensation liabilities, including those related to claims incurred but not reported, are recorded principally using annual valuations based on discounted future expected payments using historical data of the operating subsidiary or combined insurance industry data when historical data is limited. State workers compensation acts typically provide for an exception to an employer immunity from civil lawsuits for workplace injuries in the case of intentional torts. However, West Virginia workers compensation act provides a much broader exception to workers compensation immunity. The exception allows an injured employee to recover against his or her employer where he or she can show damages caused by an unsafe working condition of which the employer was aware that was a violation of a statute, regulation, rule or consensus industry standard. These types of lawsuits are not uncommon and could have a significant impact on our operating costs. In addition, we obtained from a third party insurer a workers compensation insurance policy, which includes coverage for medical and disability benefits for black lung disease under the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969 and the Mine Act, as amended. Under the Black Lung Benefits Revenue Act of 1977 and the Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977, as amended in 1981, each coal mine operator must pay federal black lung benefits to claimants who are current and former employees and also make payments to a trust fund for the payment of benefits and medical expenses to claimants who last worked in the coal industry prior to January 1, 1970. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act includes significant changes to the federal black lung program including an automatic survivor benefit paid upon the death of a miner with an awarded black lung claim and the establishment of a rebuttable presumption with regard to pneumoconiosis among miners with 15 or more years of coal mine employment that are totally disabled by a respiratory condition. These changes could have a material impact on our costs expended in association with the federal black lung program. In addition to possibly incurring liability under federal statutes, we may also be liable under state laws for black lung claims. Clean Air Act The CAA and comparable state laws that regulate air emissions affect coal mining operations both directly and indirectly. Direct impacts on coal mining and processing operations include CAA permitting requirements and emission control requirements relating to air pollutants, including particulate matter such as fugitive dust. The CAA indirectly affects coal mining operations by extensively regulating the emissions of particulate matter, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds emitted by coal fired power plants. In addition to the GHG issues discussed below, the air emissions programs that may materially and adversely affect our operations, financial results, liquidity, and demand for our coal, directly or indirectly, include, but are not limited to, the following Clean Air Interstate Rule and Cross State Air Pollution Rule . The Clean Air Interstate Rule ( CAIR ) calls for power plants in 28 states and the District of Columbia to reduce emission levels of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide pursuant to a cap and trade program similar to the system now in effect for acid rain. In June 2011, the EPA finalized the Cross State Air Pollution Rule ( CSAPR ), a replacement rule to CAIR, which requires 28 states in the Midwest and eastern seaboard of the U.S. to reduce power plant emissions that cross state lines and contribute to oz1 and or fine particle pollution in other states. Following litigation over the rule, the EPA issued an interim final rule reconciling the CSAPR rule with a court order, which calls for Phase 1 implementation of CSAPR in 2015 and Phase 2 implementation in 2017. In September 2016, the EPA finalized an update to CSAPR for the 2008 oz1 NAAQS by issuing the final CSAPR Update. Beginning in May 2017, the CSAPR Update further limited summertime (May September) nitrogen oxide emissions from power plants in 22 states in the eastern United States. For states to meet their requirements under CSAPR, a number of coal fired electric generating units will likely need to be retired, rather than retrofitted with the necessary emission control technologies, reducing demand for thermal coal. However, the practical impact of CSAPR may be limited because utilities in the U.S. have continued to take steps to comply with CAIR, which requires similar power plant emissions reductions, and because utilities are preparing to comply with the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards ( MATS ) regulations, which require overlapping power plant emissions reductions. 14 Table of Contents Acid Rain . Title IV of the CAA requires reductions of sulfur dioxide emissions by electric utilities and applies to all coal fired power plants generating greater than 25 Megawatts of power. Affected power plants have sought to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions by switching to lower sulfur fuels, installing pollution control devices, reducing electricity generating levels or purchasing or trading sulfur dioxide emission allowances. These reductions could impact our customers in the electric generation industry. These requirements are not supplanted by CSAPR. NAAQS for Criterion Pollutants . The CAA requires the EPA to set standards, referred to as NAAQS, for six common air pollutants carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, lead, oz1, particulate matter and sulfur dioxide. Areas that are not in compliance (referred to as non attainment areas) with these standards must take steps to reduce emissions levels. The EPA has adopted more stringent NAAQS for nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, particulate matter and oz1 As a result, some states will be required to amend their existing individual state implementation plans ( SIPs ) to achieve compliance with the new air quality standards. Other states will be required to develop new plans for areas that were previously in attainment, but do not meet the revised standards. For example, in October 2015, the EPA finalized the NAAQS for oz1 pollution and reduced the limit to 70 parts per billion (ppb) from the previous 75 ppb standard. Under the revised oz1 NAAQS, significant additional emissions control expenditures may be required at coal fired power plants. The final rules and new standards may impose additional emissions control requirements on our customers in the electric generation, steelmaking, and coke industries. Because coal mining operations emit particulate matter and sulfur dioxide, our mining operations could be affected when the new standards are implemented by the states. Nitrogen Oxide SIP Call . The nitrogen oxide SIP Call program was established by the EPA in October 1998 to reduce the transport of nitrogen oxide and oz1 on prevailing winds from the Midwest and South to states in the Northeast, which alleged that they could not meet federal air quality standards because of migrating pollution. The program is designed to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions by 1 million tons per year in 22 eastern states and the District of Columbia. As a result of the program, many power plants have been or will be required to install additional emission control measures, such as selective catalytic reduction devices. Installation of additional emission control measures will make it more costly to operate coal fired power plants, potentially making coal a less attractive fuel. Mercury and Hazardous Air Pollutants . In February 2012, the EPA formally adopted the MATS rule to regulate emissions of mercury and other metals, fine particulates, and acid gases such as hydrogen chloride from coal and oil fired power plants. Following a legal challenge to MATS, the EPA issued a new determination in April 2016 that it is appropriate and necessary to regulate these pollutants from power plants. In December 2018, the EPA proposed a rule that would reverse its determination that it is appropriate and necessary to regulate these pollutants. However, as proposed, this rule would not alter or eliminate the emissions standards established by the MATS rule. Like CSAPR, MATS and other similar future regulations could accelerate the retirement of a significant number of coal fired power plants. Such retirements would likely adversely impact our business. Global Climate Change Climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention. There is widespread concern about the contributions of human activity to such changes, especially through the emission of GHGs. There are 3 primary sources of GHGs associated with the coal industry. First, the end use of our coal by our customers in electricity generation, coke plants, and steelmaking is a source of GHGs. Second, combustion of fuel by equipment used in coal production and to transport our coal to our customers is a source of GHGs. Third, coal mining itself can release methane, which is considered to be a more potent GHG than CO2, directly into the atmosphere. These emissions from coal consumption, transportation and production are subject to pending and proposed regulation as part of initiatives to address global climate change. As a result, numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of GHGs. Collectively, these initiatives could result in higher electric costs to our customers or lower the demand for coal used in electric generation, which could in turn adversely impact our business. At present, we are principally focused on metallurgical coal production, which is not used in connection with the production of power generation. However, we may seek to sell greater amounts of our coal into the power generation market in the future. The market for our coal may be adversely impacted if comprehensive legislation or regulations focusing on GHG emission reductions are adopted, or if our customers are unable to obtain financing for their operations. 15 Table of Contents At the international level, President Obama announced in November 2014 that the United States would seek to cut net GHG emissions 26 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 in return for China commitment to seek to peak emissions around 2030, with concurrent increases in renewable energy. In addition, the United Nations Conference on Climate Change created the Paris Agreement in December 2015. This agreement has been ratified by more than 70 countries, and entered into force in November 2016. Although this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions, it does include pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. The United States signed the agreement in April 2016; however, in June 2017, President Trump stated that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement, but may enter into a future international agreement related to GHGs. Pursuant to the terms of the Paris Agreement, the earliest date the United States can withdraw is November 2020. At the federal level, no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented to date. The EPA has, however, has determined that emissions of GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment, because emissions of GHGs are, according to the EPA, contributing to the warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. For example, in August 2015, EPA finalized the CPP to cut carbon emissions from existing power plants. The CPP creates individualized emission guidelines for states to follow, and requires each state to develop an implementation plan to meet the individual state specific targets for reducing GHG emissions. The EPA also proposed a federal compliance plan to implement the CPP in the event that a state does not submit an approvable plan to the EPA. In February 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court granted a stay of the implementation of the CPP. This stay suspends the rule and will remain in effect until the completion of the appeals process. The Supreme Court stay only applies to EPA regulations for CO2 emissions from existing power plants and will not affect EPA standards for new power plants. In March 2017, President Trump directed the EPA to review the CPP and related rules and actions for consistency with the new administration policy objectives. Pursuant to this direction, the EPA proposed a rulemaking in October 2017 that would withdraw the CPP. On December 18, 2017, EPA issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPRM ) to announce it is considering new emission guidelines to replace the CPP and is soliciting information on how best to implement such regulations. On August 31, 2018, EPA proposed a rule that would replace the CPP with a new rule titled the Affordable Clean Energy ( ACE ) Rule. Although the ACE rule moves away from the individualized emission guidelines of the CPP, it would still require states to set appropriate GHG emission standards for power plants within their jurisdiction based upon the application of candidate heat rate improvement measures. If the CPP is ultimately upheld, and depending on how it is implemented by the states, it could have an adverse impact on the demand for coal for electric generation. Similarly, if EPA chooses to promulgate new emissions limitations to replace the CPP, such as the ACE rule, these could also have an adverse impact on the demand for coal for electric generation. At the state level, several states have already adopted measures requiring GHG emissions to be reduced within state boundaries, including cap and trade programs and the imposition of renewable energy portfolio standards. Various states and regions have also adopted GHG initiatives and certain governmental bodies, have imposed, or are considering the imposition of, fees or taxes based on the emission of GHGs by certain facilities. A number of states have also enacted legislative mandates requiring electricity suppliers to use renewable energy sources to generate a certain percentage of power. The uncertainty over the outcome of litigation challenging the CPP and the extent of future regulation of GHG emissions may inhibit utilities from investing in the building of new coal fired plants to replace older plants or investing in the upgrading of existing coal fired plants. Any reduction in the amount of coal consumed by electric power generators as a result of actual or potential regulation of GHG emissions could decrease demand for our coal, thereby reducing our revenues and materially and adversely affecting our business and results of operations. We or prospective customers may also have to invest in CO2 capture and storage technologies in order to burn coal and comply with future GHG emission standards. Finally, there have been attempts to encourage greater regulation of coalbed methane because methane has a greater GHG effect than CO2 Methane from coal mines can give rise to safety concerns, and may require that various measures be taken to mitigate those risks. If new laws or regulations were introduced to reduce coalbed methane emissions, those rules could adversely affect our costs of operations by requiring installation of air pollution controls, higher taxes, or costs incurred to purchase credits that permit us to continue operations. Clean Water Act The CWA and corresponding state laws and regulations affect coal mining operations by restricting the discharge of pollutants, including dredged or fill materials, into waters of the United States. Likewise, permits are required under the CWA to construct impoundments, fills or other structure in areas that are designated as waters of the United States. The CWA provisions and associated state and federal regulations are complex and subject to amendments, legal challenges and changes in implementation. Recent court decisions, regulatory actions and proposed legislation have created uncertainty over CWA jurisdiction and permitting requirements. Prior to discharging any pollutants into waters of the United States, coal mining companies must obtain a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System ( NPDES ) permit from the appropriate state or federal permitting authority. NPDES permits include effluent limitations for discharged pollutants and other terms and conditions, including required monitoring of discharges. Failure to comply with the CWA or NPDES permits can lead to the imposition of significant penalties, litigation, compliance costs and delays in coal production. Changes and proposed changes in state and federally recommended water quality standards may result in the issuance or modification of permits with new or more stringent effluent limits or terms and conditions. 16 Table of Contents For instance, waters that states have designated as impaired (i.e., as not meeting present water quality standards) are subject to Total Maximum Daily Load regulations, which may lead to the adoption of more stringent discharge standards for our coal mines and could require more costly treatment. Likewise, the water quality of certain receiving streams requires an anti degradation review before approving any discharge permits. TMDL regulations and anti degradation policies may increase the cost, time and difficulty associated with obtaining and complying with NPDES permits. In addition, in certain circumstances private citizens may challenge alleged violations of NPDES permit limits in court. Recently, certain citizen groups have filed lawsuits alleging ongoing discharges of pollutants, including selenium and conductance, from valley fills located at certain mining sites in some of the regions where we operate. In West Virginia, several of these cases have been successful for the challengers. While it is difficult to predict the outcome of any potential or future suits, such litigation could result in increased compliance costs following the completion of mining at our operations. Finally, in June 2015, the EPA and the Corps published a new definition of waters of the United States ( WOTUS ) that became effective on August 28, 2015. We anticipate that the WOTUS rules, if upheld in litigation and by the EPA, will expand areas requiring NPDES or Corps Section 404 permits. Many groups have filed suit to challenge the validity of this rule. In October 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit had stayed the rule nationwide pending the outcome of this litigation. In January 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that only U.S. district courts have jurisdiction to hear challenges to that rule. As a result of that ruling, the Sixth Circuit dissolved its nationwide stay of the WOTUS rules on February 28, 2018. However, on February 6, 2018, the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers published a final rule extending the applicability date of the 2015 Clean Water Rule to February 6, 2020. This change prevented the WOTUS rules from immediately coming back into effect after the stay was lifted. However, the February 2018 delay rule is subject to pending judicial challenges in multiple federal district courts. Furthermore, in February 2017, President Trump issued an Executive Order directing the EPA to review and revise or rescind the WOTUS rule. On June 27, 2017, EPA proposed a rulemaking that would implement this directive by rescinding the 2015 rulemaking and re codifying the definition in place prior to 2015. In December 2018, EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers issued a proposed rule that, if finalized, would narrow the scope of their jurisdiction. To the extent that the outcome of the pending litigation or any future rules expand the scope of the Clean Water Act's jurisdiction, the CWA permits our lessees need may not be issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion, or may be issued with new requirements which restrict our lessees ability to conduct their mining operations or to do so profitably. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act RCRA and corresponding state laws establish standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes generated at our various facilities. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal practices. In addition, RCRA requires certain of our facilities to evaluate and respond to any past release, or threatened release, of a hazardous substance that may pose a risk to human health or the environment. RCRA may affect coal mining operations by establishing requirements for the proper management, handling, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. Currently, certain coal mine wastes, such as earth and rock covering a mineral deposit (commonly referred to as overburden) and coal cleaning wastes, are exempted from hazardous waste management under RCRA. Any change or reclassification of this exemption could significantly increase our coal mining costs. EPA began regulating coal ash as a solid waste under Subtitle D of RCRA in 2015. The EPA rule requires closure of sites that fail to meet prescribed engineering standards, regular inspections of impoundments, and immediate remediation and closure of unlined ponds that are polluting ground water. The rule also establishes limits for the location of new sites. As initially promulgated, the rule provided an exemption for closed coal ash impoundments located at inactive facilities and also allowed for the continued operation of unlined or clay lined ponds that were not polluting groundwater. However, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit vacated these provisions of the rule in August 2018. In December 2016, Congress passed the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act, which provides for the establishment of state and EPA permit programs for the control of coal combustion residuals and authorizes states to incorporate EPA final rule for coal combustion residuals or develop other criteria that are at least as protective as the final rule. These requirements, as well as any future changes in the management of coal combustion residues, could increase our customers operating costs and potentially reduce their ability or need to purchase coal. In addition, contamination caused by the past disposal of coal combustion residues, including coal ash, could lead to material liability for our customers under RCRA or other federal or state laws and potentially further reduce the demand for coal. 17 Table of Contents Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act CERCLA and similar state laws affect coal mining operations by, among other things, imposing cleanup requirements for threatened or actual releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under CERCLA and similar state laws, joint and several liability may be imposed on hazardous substance generators, site owners, transporters, lessees and others regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal activity. Although the EPA excludes most wastes generated by coal mining and processing operations from the primary hazardous waste laws, such wastes can, in certain circumstances, constitute hazardous substances for the purposes of CERCLA. In addition, the disposal, release or spilling of some products used by coal companies in operations, such as chemicals, could trigger the liability provisions of CERCLA or similar state laws. Thus, we may be subject to liability under CERCLA and similar state laws for coal mines that we currently own, lease or operate or that we or our predecessors have previously owned, leased or operated, and sites to which we or our predecessors sent hazardous substances. These liabilities could be significant and materially and adversely impact our financial results and liquidity. Endangered Species and Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Acts The ESA and similar state legislation protect species designated as threatened, endangered or other special status. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (the USFWS ) works closely with the OSMRE and state regulatory agencies to ensure that species subject to the ESA are protected from mining related impacts. Several species indigenous to the areas in which we operate area protected under the ESA. Other species in the vicinity of our operations may have their listing status reviewed in the future and could also become protected under the ESA. In addition, the USFWS has identified bald eagle habitat in some of the counties were we operate. The Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act prohibits taking certain actions that would harm bald or golden eagles without obtaining a permit from the USFWS. Compliance with the requirements of the ESA and the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act could have the effect of prohibiting or delaying us from obtaining mining permits. These requirements may also include restrictions on timber harvesting, road building and other mining or agricultural activities in areas containing the affected species or their habitats. Use of Explosives Our surface mining operations are subject to numerous regulations relating to blasting activities. Due to these regulations, we will incur costs to design and implement blast schedules and to conduct pre blast surveys and blast monitoring. In addition, the storage of explosives is subject to various regulatory requirements. For example, pursuant to a rule issued by the Department of Homeland Security in 2007, facilities in possession of chemicals of interest (including ammonium nitrate at certain threshold levels) are required to complete a screening review. Our mines are low risk, Tier 4 facilities which are not subject to additional security plans. In 2008, the Department of Homeland Security proposed regulation of ammonium nitrate under the ammonium nitrate security rule. Additional requirements may include tracking and verifications for each transaction related to ammonium nitrate, though a final rule has yet to be issued. Finally, in December 2014, the OSMRE announced its decision to pursue a rulemaking to revise regulations under SMCRA which will address all blast generated fumes and toxic gases. OSMRE has not yet issued a proposed rule to address these blasts. The outcome of these rulemakings could materially adversely impact our cost or ability to conduct our mining operations. National Environmental Policy Act NEPA requires federal agencies, including the Department of Interior, to evaluate major agency actions that have the potential to significantly impact the environment, such as issuing a permit or other approval. In the course of such evaluations, an agency will typically prepare an environmental assessment to determine the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project. Where the activities in question have significant impacts to the environment, the agency must prepare an environmental impact statement. Compliance with NEPA can be time consuming and may result in the imposition of mitigation measures that could affect the amount of coal that we are able to produce from mines on federal lands, and may require public comment. Furthermore, whether agencies have complied with NEPA is subject to protest, appeal or litigation, which can delay or halt projects. The NEPA review process, including potential disputes regarding the level of evaluation required for climate change impacts, may extend the time and or increase the costs and difficulty of obtaining necessary governmental approvals, and may lead to litigation regarding the adequacy of the NEPA analysis, which could delay or potentially preclude the issuance of approvals or grant of leases. In 2016, the Council on Environmental Quality released guidance discussing how federal agencies should consider the effects of GHG emissions and climate change in their NEPA evaluations. The guidance encourages agencies to provide more detailed discussion of the direct, indirect, and cumulative impacts of a proposed action reasonably foreseeable emissions and effects. This guidance could create additional delays and costs in the NEPA review process or in our operations, or even an inability to obtain necessary federal approvals for our operations due to the increased risk of legal challenges from environmental groups seeking additional analysis of climate impacts. Other Environmental Laws We are required to comply with numerous other federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations in addition to those previously discussed. These additional laws include but are not limited to the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, and the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act. Each of these laws can impact permitting or planned operations and can result in additional costs or operational delays. 18 Table of Contents Seasonality Our primary business is not materially impacted by seasonal fluctuations. Demand for metallurgical coal is generally more heavily influenced by other factors such as the general economy, interest rates and commodity prices. Employees We had 349 employees as of December 31, 2018, including our named executive officers. We also depend on experienced contractors and third party industry consultants to conduct some of our day to day activities. We plan to continue to use the services of many of these contractors and consultants. Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act ( JOBS Act ) We are an emerging growth company as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the JOBS Act ). For as long as we are an emerging growth company, unlike public companies that are not emerging growth companies under the JOBS Act, we will not be required to provide an auditor attestation report on management assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002; comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the PCAOB ) requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer; provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies or hold stockholder advisory votes on the executive compensation required by the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd Frank Act ); or obtain stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We will cease to be an emerging growth company upon the earliest of the last day of the fiscal year in which we have $107 billion or more in annual revenues; the date on which we become a large accelerated filer (the fiscal year end on which the total market value of our common equity securities held by non affiliates is $700 million or more as of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter); the date on which we issue more than $10 billion of non convertible debt over a 3 year period; or the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), for complying with new or revised accounting standards, but we irrevocably opted out of the extended transition period and, as a result, we adopt new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates in which adoption of such standards is required for other public companies. Available Information Our investor relations website is ir.ramacoresources.com and we encourage investors to use it as a way of easily finding information about us. We promptly make available on this website, free of charge, the reports that we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), corporate governance information (including our Code of Conduct and Ethics) and press releases. Our filings with the SEC are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services and at the SEC website at http www.sec.gov. Item 1A. Risk Factors Please carefully consider the following risk factors. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Our properties have not yet been fully developed into producing coal mines and, if we experience any development delays or cost increases or are unable to complete the construction of our facilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have not completed development plans for all of our coal properties, and do not expect to have full annual production from all of our properties until 2022 We expect to incur significant capital expenditures until we have completed the development of our properties. In addition, the development of our properties involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties that are beyond our control and that may cause delays in, or increase the costs associated with, their completion. Accordingly, we may not be able to complete the development of the properties on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all, and any delays beyond the expected development periods or increased costs above those expected to be incurred could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. In connection with the development of our properties, we may encounter unexpected difficulties, including the following shortages of materials or delays in delivery of materials; unexpected operational events; facility or equipment malfunctions or breakdowns; unusual or unexpected adverse geological conditions; cost overruns; failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, all necessary governmental and third party rights of way, easements, permits, licenses and approvals for the development, construction and operation of 1 or more of our properties, including the permits still required at our RAM Mine project; weather conditions and other catastrophes, such as explosions, structural failures, fires, floods and accidents; difficulties in attracting a sufficient skilled and unskilled workforce, increases in the level of labor costs and the existence of any labor disputes; and local and general economic and infrastructure conditions. If we are unable to complete or are substantially delayed in completing the development of any of our properties, our business, financial condition, results of operations cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. Because we have a limited operating history, you may have difficulty evaluating our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Because of our limited operating history, the operating performance of our properties and our business strategy has not yet been proven. Therefore, it may be difficult for you to evaluate our business and results of operations to date and assess our future prospects. In addition, we may encounter risks and difficulties experienced by companies whose performance is dependent upon newly constructed assets, such as any 1 of our properties failing to perform as expected, having higher than expected operating costs, having lower than expected customer revenues, or suffering equipment breakdown, failures or operational errors. We may be less successful in achieving a consistent operating level capable of generating cash flows from our operations as compared to a company whose major assets have had longer operating histories. In addition, we may be less equipped to identify and address operating risks and hazards in the conduct of our business than those companies whose major assets have had longer operating histories. We have a limited operating history and our future performance is uncertain. We commenced initial production in late December 2016 at 1 of our properties, and commercial production in January 2017, at which time we began to generate revenue from production. In 2016 and 2017, we incurred substantial net losses and negative cash flows from operating activities, but in 2018 we transiti1d to a profitable company generating positive net income. Nevertheless, we continue development activities at a number of our current and planned mines. We face challenges and uncertainties in financial planning as a result of the unavailability of historical data and uncertainties regarding the nature, scope and results of our future activities. New companies must develop successful business relationships, establish operating procedures, hire staff, install management information and other systems, establish facilities and obtain licenses, as well as take other measures necessary to conduct their intended business activities. We may not be successful in implementing our business strategies or in completing the development of the infrastructure necessary to conduct our business as planned. In the event that 1 or more of our mine development programs are not completed or are delayed or terminated, our operating results will be adversely affected and our operations will differ materially from the activities described in this annual report. As a result of industry factors or factors relating specifically to us, we may have to change our methods of conducting business, which may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. 20 Table of Contents Our Elk Creek preparation plant was idled as a result of a structural failure to a coal storage silo. If the preparation plant does not return to pre silo failure levels in a timely manner, our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. On November 5, 2018, 1 of our 3 raw coal storage silos that feed our Elk Creek plant in West Virginia experienced a partial structural failure, which included various comp1nts internal to the silo. Our personnel idled the preparation plant and placed a safety z1 around the areas that could potentially be impacted from a more severe failure. The preparation plant resumed operations on November 30, 2018 with the installation and commissioning of a temporary conveying system. The temporary conveying system allows us to bypass the damaged raw coal storage silo, which has been demolished, and allowed for the immediate processing and shipping of coal, subject to rail availability. Using this temporary bypass system, we processed and shipped, at 80% of the entire plant capacity, through the Elk Creek plant throughout December 2018. In February 2019, we completed the fabrication of a higher capacity bypass system to provide a secondary conveyance system, which operates at greater than 80% of capacity with increased reliability compared to the initial bypass system. We anticipate completion of the rehabilitation work to the 2 remaining silos in the second quarter of 2019, at which time we expect the prep plant to return to full processing capacity. In addition, we issued force majeure notices to certain of our customers as a result of the incident. The force majeure notices sent regarding the silo failure have been accepted or resolved. Certain of the customers impacted by the force majeure declaration were fully satisfied in 2018 while certain other remaining customers accepted deferred shipments in 2019 with their original contacted prices. No material financial impact based on sales was incurred by us pursuant to these force majeure notices. Finally, we maintain insurance policies for a number of risks and hazards, including this incident; however, our insurance carrier has disputed our claim for coverage based on certain exclusions to the applicable policy. We are still evaluating whether we will be fully insured against all losses or liabilities that could arise from this incident. If losses or liabilities from the incident are not fully covered by insurance, this could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We could fail to retain customers or gain new 1s. The failure to obtain additional customers or the loss of all or a portion of the revenues attributable to any customer as a result of competition, credi2rthiness, inability to negotiate extensions or replacement of contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our customer base is highly dependent on the steel industry. Substantially all of the metallurgical coal that we produce is sold to steel producers. Therefore, demand for our metallurgical coal is highly correlated to the steel industry. The steel industry demand for metallurgical coal is affected by a number of factors including the cyclical nature of that industry business, technological developments in the steel making process and the availability of substitutes for steel such as aluminum, composites and plastics. A significant reduction in the demand for steel products would reduce the demand for metallurgical coal, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Similarly, if less expensive ingredients could be used in substitution for metallurgical coal in the integrated steel mill process, the demand for metallurgical coal would materially decrease, which would also materially adversely affect demand for our metallurgical coal. On March 8, 2018, President Trump signed proclamations imposing a 25 percent tariff on imports of steel mill products and a 10 percent tariff on imports of wrought and unwrought aluminum. While the steel tariffs appear to have had little impact on coal pricing or demand to date, longer term implications for coal markets and the global economy as a whole remain less certain. Our export customers include foreign steel producers who may be affected by the tariffs to the extent their production is imported into the U.S. Conversely, demand for metallurgical coal from our domestic customers may increase. Retaliatory threats by foreign nations to these tariffs may limit international trade and adversely impact global economic conditions. We do not enter into long term sales contracts for our coal and as a result we are exposed to fluctuations in market pricing. Sales commitments in the metallurgical coal market are typically not long term in nature and are generally no longer than 1 year in duration. Most metallurgical coal transactions in the U.S. are d1 on a calendar year basis, where both prices and volumes are fixed in the third and fourth quarter for the following calendar year. Globally the market is evolving to shorter term pricing. Some annual contracts have shifted to quarterly contracts and most volumes are being sold on an indexed basis, where prices are determined by averaging the leading spot indexes reported in the market and adjusting for quality. As a result, we are subject to fluctuations in market pricing. We are not protected from oversupply or market conditions where we cannot sell our coal at economic prices. Metallurgical coal has been an extremely volatile commodity over the past ten years and prices may become volatile again in the future. There can be no assurances we will be able to mitigate such conditions as they arise. Any sustained failure to be able to market our coal during such periods would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. 21 Table of Contents The failure to access coal preparation facilities may have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce coal for our prospective customers and to meet quality specifications. The costs of establishing the infrastructure necessary to enable us to continue to ramp up our mining operations will be significant. We have constructed preparation and loading facilities at our Elk Creek mining complex. Our Berwind mine will remain under development until we reach our targeted coal reserves in the Pocahontas No. 4 seam. That coal is currently, and is planned to continue to be, washed at our active Knox Creek plant. At our RAM Mine, we may require access to either newly constructed preparation and loading facilities or arrangements with third parties to process and load our coal. Alternatively we may mine the coal in a manner that allows us to ship the coal direct without washing. We will analyze whether to expend capital to construct preparation facilities or enter into third party processing arrangements. Our failure to provide the necessary preparation, processing and loading facilities for our projects would have a material adverse effect on our operations. The risks associated with the construction and operation of mines, processing plants and related infrastructure include the potential lack of availability or cost of skilled and unskilled labor, equipment and principal supplies needed for construction of facilities; the need to obtain necessary environmental and other governmental approvals and permits and the timing of the receipt of those approvals and permits; industrial accidents; geologic mine failures, surface facility construction failures or mining, coal processing or transport equipment failures; structural failure of an impoundment or refuse area; natural phenomena such as inclement weather conditions, floods, droughts, rock slides and seismic activity; unusual or unexpected geological and metallurgic conditions; potential opposition from non governmental organizations, environmental groups or other activists, which may delay or prevent development activities; and restrictions or regulations imposed by governmental or regulatory authorities. The costs, timing and complexities of developing our projects may be greater than anticipated. Cost estimates may increase significantly as more detailed engineering work is completed on a project. It is common in mining operations to experience unexpected costs, problems and delays during construction, development and mine start up. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to attain profitability on the currently anticipated time frames. Product alternatives may reduce demand for our products. Substantially all of our coal production is comprised of metallurgical coal, which commands a significant price premium over the majority of other forms of coal because of its use in blast furnaces for steel production. Metallurgical coal has specific physical and chemical properties, which are necessary for efficient blast furnace operation. Steel producers are continually investigating alternative steel production technologies with a view to reducing production costs. The steel industry has increased utilization of electric arc furnaces or pulverized coal injection processes, which reduce or eliminate the use of furnace coke, an intermediate product produced from metallurgical coal and, in turn, generally decreases the demand for metallurgical coal. Many alternative technologies are designed to use lower quality coals or other sources of carbon instead of higher cost high quality metallurgical coal. While conventional blast furnace technology has been the most economic large scale steel production technology for a number of years, and emergent technologies typically take many years to commercialize, there can be no assurance that over the longer term competitive technologies not reliant on metallurgical coal would not emerge, which could reduce the demand and price premiums for metallurgical coal. Moreover, we may produce and market other coal products, such as thermal coal, which are also subject to alternative competition. Alternative technologies are continually being investigated and developed in order to reduce production costs or minimize environmental or social impact. If competitive technologies emerge that use other materials in place of our products, demand and price for our products might fall. 22 Table of Contents We face uncertainties in estimating our economically recoverable coal reserves, and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs and decreased profitability. Coal is economically recoverable when the price at which coal can be sold exceeds the costs and expenses of mining and selling the coal. Any forecasts of our future performance are based on, among other things, estimates of our recoverable coal reserves. We base our reserve information on geologic data, coal ownership information and current and proposed mine plans. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of coal and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. As a result, estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves are by their nature uncertain. Some of the factors and assumptions that can impact economically recoverable coal reserve estimates include geologic and mining conditions; historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the assumed effects of environmental and other regulations and taxes by governmental agencies; our ability to obtain, maintain and renew all required permits; future improvements in mining technology; assumptions related to future prices; and future operating costs, including the cost of materials, and capital expenditures. Each of the factors that impacts reserve estimation may vary considerably from the assumptions used in estimating the reserves. For these reasons, estimates of coal reserves may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our future coal reserves may vary from estimates, and these variances may be material. As a result, our estimates may not accurately reflect our actual future coal reserves. Our inability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable may have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. Our profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine, in a cost effective manner, coal reserves that possess the quality characteristics that prospective customers desire. Because our reserves will decline as we mine our coal, our future profitability depends upon our ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable to replace the reserves we will produce. If we fail to acquire or develop sufficient additional reserves over the long term to replace the reserves depleted by our production, our existing reserves could eventually be exhausted. Our mine plan for Elk Creek assumes we will mine a certain amount of clean tons from a property adjacent to our mine that we do not own or currently have the right to conduct coal mining operations on. If we are unable to acquire this property or obtain the right to conduct coal mining operations on such property, our production plan would shift to alternative reserves that we control. This modified production plan may result in reduced production volumes. Our limited operating history, multiple coal quality levels and the need to send test shipments to prospective customers may negatively impact our ability to further develop our customer base. We are a company with a limited operating history. Customers typically request test shipments of coal in advance of entering into coal sales agreements which requires that we provide coal quality to meet customer specifications. If we experience delays in the delivery of test shipments, it could negatively impact our ability to develop our customer base. We are dependent on contractors for the successful completion of the development of our properties. While Elk Creek is now operational, and the Knox Creek facility serves our Berwind property, we regularly use contractors in the development of our mines and intend to use contractors if and when we construct facilities at the RAM Mine. Timely and cost effective completion of the development of our properties, including necessary facilities and infrastructure, in compliance with agreed specifications is central to our business strategy and is highly dependent on the performance of our contractors under the agreements with them in connection with the development of the properties. The ability of our contractors to perform successfully under their agreements is dependent on a number of factors, including the ability to design and engineer each of our facilities to operate in accordance with specifications; engage and retain any necessary third party subcontractors and procure equipment and supplies; respond to difficulties such as equipment failure, delivery delays, schedule changes and failure to perform by subcontractors, some of which are beyond their control; attract, develop and retain skilled personnel, including engineers; post required construction bonds and comply with the terms thereof; manage the construction process generally, including coordinating with other contractors and regulatory agencies; and maintain their own financial condition, including adequate working capital. Although some agreements may provide for liquidated damages, if the contractor fails to perform in the manner required with respect to certain of its obligations, the events that trigger a requirement to pay liquidated damages may delay or impair the operation of our properties, and any liquidated damages that we receive may not be sufficient to cover the damages that we suffer as a result of any such delay or impairment. Further, we may have disagreements with our contractors about different elements of the construction process, which could lead to the assertion of rights and remedies under their contracts and increase the costs associated with development of the properties or result in a contractor unwillingness to perform further work. If any contractor is unable or unwilling to perform according to the negotiated terms and timetable of its respective agreement for any reason or terminates its agreement, we would be required to engage a substitute contractor. This would likely result in significant project delays and increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. 23 Table of Contents Deterioration in the global economic conditions in any of the industries in which prospective customers operate, a worldwide financial downturn, such as the 2008 2009 financial crisis, or negative credit market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Economic conditions in the industries in which most of our prospective customers operate, such as steelmaking and electric power generation, substantially deteriorated in recent years and reduced the demand for coal. In the past six years, domestic metallurgical coal demand averaged 20.2 million tons from blast furnaces in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, Alabama, New York and West Virginia. According to Doyle, total thermal and metallurgical coal production in the Central Appalachian Basin is expected to gradually decline, with approximately 64 million tons per year expected to be produced by 2035, representing a compounded annual decline of 0.23% from 67 million tons in 2016. The majority of Central Appalachian coal production is expected to be metallurgical coal. A deterioration of economic conditions in our prospective customers industries could cause a decline in demand for and production of metallurgical coal. Renewed or continued weakness in the economic conditions of any of the industries served by prospective customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. For example demand for metallurgical coal depends on domestic and foreign steel demand, which if weakened would negatively impact our revenues, margins and profitability; the tightening of credit or lack of credit availability to prospective customers could adversely affect our ability to collect our trade receivables; and our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we intend to raise capital for our business, including for capital improvements and exploration and or development of coal reserves. Prices for coal are volatile and can fluctuate widely based upon a number of factors beyond our control, including oversupply relative to the demand available for our coal and weather. A substantial or extended decline in the prices we receive for our coal could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our financial results are significantly affected by the prices we receive for our coal and depend, in part, on the margins that we earn on sales of our coal. Our margins will reflect the price we receive for our coal over our cost of producing and transporting our coal. Prices and quantities under U.S. domestic metallurgical coal sales contracts are generally based on expectations of the next year coal prices at the time the contract is entered into, renewed, extended or re opened. Pricing in the global seaborne market is moving towards shorter term pricing models, typically using indexes. The expectation of future prices for coal depends upon many factors beyond our control, including the following the market price for coal; overall domestic and global economic conditions, including the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal, coke and steel; the consumption pattern of industrial consumers, electricity generators and residential users; weather conditions in our markets that affect the demand for thermal coal or that affect the ability to produce metallurgical coal; competition from other coal suppliers; technological advances affecting energy consumption; the costs, availability and capacity of transportation infrastructure; the impact of domestic and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including environmental and climate change regulations and regulations affecting the coal mining industry, and delays in the receipt of, failure to receive, failure to maintain or revocation of necessary governmental permits; and increased utilization by the steel industry of electric arc furnaces or pulverized coal injection processes, which reduce or eliminate the use of furnace coke, an intermediate product produced from metallurgical coal, and generally decrease the demand for metallurgical coal. Metallurgical coal has been an extremely volatile commodity over the past 10 years. More recently, in early 2016, a new Chinese policy that limited domestic coal miners to 276 work days a year resulted in a significant decrease in Chinese production and a resulting increase in seaborne demand, which increased prices from well below $100 per metric ton ( MT ) in early 2016 to over $300 per MT. A reversal of this policy in late 2016 caused prices to fall to the mid $150s per MT. A subsequent cycl1 that hit the center of metallurgical coal production and supply chain operations in Australia in early 2017 caused prices to briefly spike to near $300 per MT. Since mid 2017, metallurgical prices have remained strong, averaging just over $200 per MT. This is in part because the Chinese workday restriction was replaced by a more permanent solution targeting smaller, less efficient, and generally higher cost mines for closure. Sxcoal noted that Chinese domestic met coal production was roughly flat in 2017, while falling 2% in 2018, despite strong pricing. As of March 7, 2019, metallurgical coal pricing was $215 per MT. There are no assurances that supplies will remain low, that demand will not decrease or that overcapacity may resume, which could cause declines in the prices of and demand for coal, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. 24 Table of Contents Increased competition or a loss of our competitive position could adversely affect sales of, or prices for, our coal, which could impair our profitability. In addition, foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal abroad. We compete with other producers primarily on the basis of coal quality, delivered costs to the customer and reliability of supply. We compete primarily with U.S. coal producers and with some Canadian coal producers for sales of metallurgical coal to domestic steel producers and, to a lesser extent, thermal coal to electric power generators. We also compete with both domestic and foreign coal producers for sales of metallurgical coal in international markets. Certain of these coal producers may have greater financial resources and larger reserve bases than we do. We sell coal to the seaborne metallurgical coal market, which is significantly affected by international demand and competition. We cannot assure you that competition from other producers will not adversely affect us in the future. The coal industry has experienced consolidation over the past 10 years, including consolidation among some of our major competitors. We cannot assure you that the result of current or further consolidation in the coal industry, or the reorganization through bankruptcy of competitors with large legacy liabilities, will not adversely affect us. A number of our competitors have idled production over the last several years in light of lower metallurgical coal prices. The recent stability in coal prices could encourage existing producers to expand capacity or could encourage new producers to enter the market. In addition, we face competition from foreign producers that sell their coal in the export market. Potential changes to international trade agreements, trade concessions, foreign currency fluctuations or other political and economic arrangements may benefit coal producers operating in countries other than the United States. Additionally, North American steel producers face competition from foreign steel producers, which could adversely impact the financial condition and business of our prospective customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete on the basis of price or other factors with companies that in the future may benefit from favorable foreign trade policies or other arrangements. Coal is sold internationally in U.S. dollars and, as a result, general economic conditions in foreign markets and changes in foreign currency exchange rates may provide our foreign competitors with a competitive advantage. If our competitors currencies decline against the U.S. dollar or against our prospective foreign customers local currencies, those competitors may be able to offer lower prices for coal to prospective customers. Furthermore, if the currencies of our prospective overseas customers were to significantly decline in value in comparison to the U.S. dollar, those prospective customers may seek decreased prices for the coal we sell to them. Consequently, currency fluctuations could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal in international markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business involves many hazards and operating risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event that is not fully insured could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our mining operations, including our preparation and transportation infrastructure, are subject to many hazards and operating risks. For example, we experienced a partial structural failure at 1 of the raw coal storage silos that feeds our Elk Creek plant in West Virginia, which idled our Elk Creek preparation plant for approximately 1 month. Underground mining and related processing activities present inherent risks of injury to persons and damage to property and equipment. Our mines are subject to a number of operating risks that could disrupt operations, decrease production and increase the cost of mining for varying lengths of time, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. In addition, if coal production declines, we may not be able to produce sufficient amounts of coal to deliver under future sales contracts. Our inability to satisfy contractual obligations could result in prospective customers initiating claims against us. The operating risks that may have a significant impact on our future coal operations include variations in thickness of seams of coal; adverse geologic conditions, including amounts of rock and other natural materials intruding into the coal seam, that could affect the stability of the roof and the side walls of the mine; environmental hazards; mining and processing equipment failures, structural failures and unexpected maintenance problems; fires or explosions, including as a result of methane, coal, coal dust or other explosive materials, or other accidents; inclement or hazardous weather conditions and natural disasters or other force majeure events; seismic activities, ground failures, rock bursts or structural cave ins or slides; delays in moving our mining equipment; railroad delays or derailments; security breaches or terroristic acts; and other hazards or occurrences that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. 25 Table of Contents Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial loss to us as a result of claims for personal injury or loss of life; damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, including our coal properties and our coal production or transportation facilities; pollution, contamination and other environmental damage to our properties or the properties of others; potential legal liability and m1tary losses; regulatory investigations, actions and penalties; suspension of our operations; and repair and remediation costs. Although we maintain insurance for a number of risks and hazards, we may not be insured or fully insured, and we may not be able to recover under our insurance policies, against the losses or liabilities that could arise from a significant accident in our future coal operations. We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution, contamination and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Moreover, a significant mine accident or regulatory infraction could potentially cause a mine shutdown. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. In addition, if any of the foregoing changes, conditions or events occurs and is not determined to be a force majeure event, any resulting failure on our part to deliver coal to the purchaser under contract could result in economic penalties, suspension or cancellation of shipments or ultimately termination of the agreement, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. O ur operations are exclusively located in a single geographic region, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a single geographic area. Currently, all of our operations are conducted in a single geographic region in the eastern United States in the states of Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia. The geographic concentration of our operations may disproportionately expose us to disruptions in our operations if the region experiences severe weather, transportation capacity constraints, constraints on the availability of required equipment, facilities, personnel or services, significant governmental regulation or natural disasters. If any of these factors were to impact the region in which we operate more than other coal producing regions, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected relative to other mining companies that have a more geographically diversified asset portfolio. In addition, scientists have warned that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases ( GHGs ) in the Earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts and floods and other climatic events. If these warnings are correct, and if any such effects were to occur in areas where we or our customers operate, they could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows. The availability and reliability of transportation facilities and fluctuations in transportation costs could affect the demand for our coal or impair our ability to supply coal to prospective customers. Transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply coal to prospective customers. Any significant delays, interruptions or other limitations on the ability to transport our coal could negatively affect our operations. Delays and interruptions of rail services because of accidents, failure to complete construction of rail infrastructure, infrastructure damage, lack of rail or port capacity, weather related problems, governmental regulation, terrorism, strikes, lock outs, third party actions or other events could impair our ability to supply coal to customers and adversely affect our profitability. In addition, transportation costs represent a significant portion of the delivered cost of coal and, as a result, the cost of delivery is a critical factor in a customer purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs, including increases resulting from emission control requirements and fluctuations in the price of locomotive diesel fuel and demurrage, could make our coal less competitive, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. 26 Table of Contents Any significant downtime of our major pieces of mining equipment, including any preparation plants, could impair our ability to supply coal to prospective customers and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on several major pieces of mining equipment to produce and transport our coal, including, but not limited to, underground continuous mining units and coal conveying systems, surface mining equipment such as highwall miners, front end loaders and coal overburden haul trucks, preparation plants and related facilities, conveyors and transloading facilities. If any of these pieces of equipment or facilities suffered major damage or were destroyed by fire, abnormal wear, flooding, incorrect operation or otherwise, we may be unable to replace or repair them in a timely manner or at a reasonable cost, which would impact our ability to produce and transport coal and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Moreover, the Mine Safety and Health Administration ( MSHA ) and other regulatory agencies sometimes make changes with regards to requirements for pieces of equipment. For example, in 2015, MSHA promulgated a new regulation requiring the implementation of proximity detection devices on all continuous mining machines. Such changes could cause delays if manufacturers and suppliers are unable to make the required changes in compliance with mandated deadlines. If either our preparation plants, or train loadout facilities, or those of a third party processing or loading our coal, suffer extended downtime, including from major damage, or is destroyed, our ability to process and deliver coal to prospective customers would be materially impacted, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. For example, in November 2018 we had to idle our Elk Creek plant in West Virginia for more than 3 weeks due to the partial structural failure of 1 of our 3 raw coal storage silos that feed our Elk Creek plant. If customers do not enter into, extend or honor contracts with us, our profitability could be adversely affected. We have not entered into a material number of contracts for the sale of our coal. Customers prefer to enter into test shipments. Coal mined from our operations is subject to testing by prospective customers for its ability to meet various specifications and to work satisfactorily in their ovens and other facilities prior to entering into contracts for purchase (which are typically short term orders having terms of 1 year or less). If we are unable to successfully test our coals or enter into new contracts for the sale of our coal, our ability to achieve profitability would be materially adversely affected. Once we enter into contracts, if a substantial portion of our sales contracts are modified or terminated and we are unable to replace the contracts (or if new contracts are priced at lower levels), our results of operations would be adversely affected, perhaps materially. In addition, if customers refuse to accept shipments of our coal for which they have a contractual obligation, our revenues could be substantially affected and we may have to reduce production at our mines until the customer contractual obligations are honored. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the payments we receive which could affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Certain provisions in typical long term sales contracts provide limited protection during adverse economic conditions, which may eventually result in economic penalties to us or permit the customer to terminate the contract. Furthermore, our ability to collect payments from prospective customers could be impaired if their credi2rthiness declines or if they fail to honor their contracts with us. We do not expect to enter into significant long term sales contracts, but if we do, price adjustment, price reopener and other similar provisions typical in long term sales contracts may reduce protection from short term coal price volatility traditionally provided by such contracts. Price reopener provisions may be included in our future sales contracts. These price reopener provisions may automatically set a new price based on prevailing market price or, in some instances, require the parties to agree on a new price, sometimes within a specified range of prices. Any adjustment or renegotiations leading to a significantly lower contract price could adversely affect our profitability. Some annual metallurgical coal contracts have shifted to spot contracts and growing volumes are being sold on an indexed basis, where prices are determined by averaging the leading spot indexes reported in the market, exposing us further to risks related to pricing volatility. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued solvency and credi2rthiness of prospective customers. The number of domestic steel producers is small, and they compete globally for steel production. If their business or credi2rthiness suffers, we may bear an increased risk with respect to payment default. In addition, some prospective customers have been adversely affected by the recent economic downturn, which may impact their ability to fulfill their contractual obligations. Competition with other coal suppliers could force us to extend credit to customers and on terms that could increase the risk we bear with respect to payment default. We could also enter into agreements to supply coal to energy trading and brokering customers under which a customer sells coal to end users. If the credi2rthiness of any prospective energy trading and brokering customer declines, we may not be able to collect payment for all coal sold and delivered to or on behalf of this customer. In addition, if customers refuse to accept shipments of our coal that they have a contractual obligation to purchase, our revenues will decrease and we may have to reduce production at our mines until prospective customers contractual obligations are honored. Our inability to collect payment from counterparties to our sales contracts may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. 27 Table of Contents Decreases in demand for electricity and changes in coal consumption patterns of U.S. electric power generators could adversely affect our business. While demand for metallurgical coal is not closely linked to domestic demand for electricity, we anticipate that the incidental production of thermal coal will generate up to 10% of our tons sold during 2019, and we may consider increasing our thermal coal operations in the future. In such case, any changes in coal consumption by electric power generators in the United States would likely impact our business over the long term. According to the United States Department of Energy Energy Information Administration ( EIA ), in 2015, the domestic electric power sector accounts for more than 90% of total U.S. coal consumption. The amount of coal consumed by the electric power generation industry is affected by, among other things general economic conditions, particularly those affecting industrial electric power demand, such as a downturn in the U.S. economy and financial markets; overall demand for electricity; competition from alternative fuel sources for power generation, including natural gas, fuel oil, nuclear, and renewable sources such as hydroelectric, wind and solar power, and the location, availability, quality and price of those alternative fuel sources; environmental and other governmental regulations, including those impacting coal fired power plants; and energy conservation efforts and related governmental policies. For example, the low price of natural gas in recent years has resulted, in some instances, in domestic electric generators increasing natural gas consumption while decreasing coal consumption. Federal and state mandates for increased use of electricity derived from renewable energy sources, such as the Clean Power Plan ( CPP ), could also affect demand for our lessees coal. Please read Risks Related to Environmental, Health, Safety and Other Regulations. The Trump administration has indicated its intention to reverse some of these requirements. For instance, in October 2017, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) proposed a rulemaking that would withdraw the CPP. However, on August 31, 2018, the EPA proposed a rulemaking that would replace the individualized emission guidelines of the CPP with new guidelines for states to use in setting emission standards for power plants within their jurisdictions. Furthermore, such actions are anticipated to be subject to challenge by environmental groups and even some state and local governments seeking to impose limitations on coal usage. Such mandates, combined with other incentives to use renewable energy sources, such as tax credits, could make renewable fuel sources more competitive with coal. A decrease in coal consumption by the electric power generation industry could adversely affect the price of coal, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. According to the EIA, although electricity demand fell in only 3 years between 1950 and 2007, it declined in six of the eight years between 2008 and 2015. The decline in electricity demand is due to several primary factors, including the steep economic downturn from late 2007 through 2009, the shift from an energy intensive manufacturing economy to a service economy and an overall improvement in energy efficiency. Other factors, such as efficiency improvements associated with new appliance standards in the buildings sectors, overall improvement in the efficiency of technologies powered by electricity, and future conservation efforts based on implementation of the CPP or its replacement, if any, have slowed or may slow electricity demand growth and may contribute to slower growth in the future, even if the U.S. economy continues its recovery. Further decreases in the demand for electricity, such as decreases that could be caused by a worsening of current economic conditions, a prolonged economic recession or other similar events, could have a material adverse effect on the demand for coal and on our business over the long term. Changes in the coal industry that affect our prospective customers, such as those caused by decreased electricity demand and increased competition, could also adversely affect our business. Indirect competition from natural gas fired plants that are relatively less expensive to construct and less difficult to permit has the most potential to displace a significant amount of coal fired electric power generation in the near term, particularly older, less efficient coal fired powered generators. In addition, uncertainty caused by federal and state regulations could cause thermal coal customers to be uncertain of their coal requirements in future years, which could adversely affect our ability to sell coal to such prospective customers under multi year sales contracts. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations of any future acquisitions, including acquisitions involving new lines of business, with our existing operations, and in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions. From time to time, we may evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and business. The assets and businesses we acquire may be dissimilar from our initial lines of business. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. Our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly as a result of future acquisitions. We may also add new lines of business to our existing operations. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including the following difficulties in the integration of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses or lines of business; inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas; the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk; and the diversion of management attention from other operations. 28 Table of Contents Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. Also, following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business or assets for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. If an acquired business or new line of business generates insufficient revenue or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. To maintain and grow our business, we will be required to make substantial capital expenditures. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, we may have to curtail our operations and delay our construction and growth plans, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. In order to maintain and grow our business, we will need to make substantial capital expenditures associated with our mines and the construction of coal preparation facilities, which have not yet been constructed. Constructing, maintaining, repairing and expanding mines and infrastructure, including coal preparation and loading facilities, is capital intensive. Specifically, the exploration, permitting and development of coal reserves, and the maintenance of machinery, equipment and facilities, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations require substantial capital expenditures. While we funded a significant amount of the capital expenditures needed to build out our mining and preparation infrastructure at our Elk Creek property with cash on hand, we must continue to invest capital to maintain or to increase our production and to develop any future acquired properties. Decisions to increase our production levels could also affect our capital needs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our production levels or generate sufficient cash flow, or that we will have access to sufficient financing to continue our production, exploration, permitting and development activities, and we may be required to defer all or a portion of our capital expenditures. If we do not make sufficient or effective capital expenditures, we will be unable to develop and grow our business. To fund our projected capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from our operations, incur debt or issue additional common stock or other equity securities. Using cash from our operations will reduce cash available for maintaining or increasing our operating activities and paying dividends to our stockholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or our ability to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our future debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions, contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. In addition, incurring debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant stockholder dilution. We may not be able to obtain equipment, parts and supplies in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at reasonable costs to support our coal mining and transportation operations. Coal mining consumes large quantities of commodities including steel, copper, rubber products and liquid fuels and requires the use of capital equipment. Some commodities, such as steel, are needed to comply with roof control plans required by regulation. The prices we pay for commodities and capital equipment are strongly impacted by the global market. A rapid or significant increase in the costs of commodities or capital equipment we use in our operations could impact our mining operations costs because we may have a limited ability to negotiate lower prices and, in some cases, may not have a ready substitute. We use equipment in our coal mining and transportation operations such as continuous mining units, conveyors, shuttle cars, rail cars, locomotives, and roof bolters. We procure this equipment from a concentrated group of suppliers, and obtaining this equipment often involves long lead times. Occasionally, demand for such equipment by mining companies can be high and some types of equipment may be in short supply. Delays in receiving or shortages of this equipment, as well as the raw materials used in the manufacturing of supplies and mining equipment, which, in some cases, do not have ready substitutes, or the cancellation of any future supply contracts under which we obtain equipment and other consumables, could limit our ability to obtain these supplies or equipment. In addition, if any of our suppliers experiences an adverse event, or decides to no longer do business with us, we may be unable to obtain sufficient equipment and raw materials in a timely manner or at a reasonable price to allow us to meet our production goals and our revenues may be adversely impacted. We use considerable quantities of steel in the mining process. If the price of steel or other materials increases substantially or if the value of the U.S. dollar declines relative to foreign currencies with respect to certain imported supplies or other products, our operating expenses could increase. Any of the foregoing events could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. 29 Table of Contents We are a holding company and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to pay our obligations and to make dividend payments depends entirely on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of a subsidiary to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, or by the law of their respective jurisdictions of formation which regulates the payment of dividends. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to declare or pay dividends. Debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. Our future level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes may be impaired, or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; our funds available for operations and future business opportunities will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt; our ability to pay dividends if an event of default occurs and is continuing or would occur as a result of paying such dividend; we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying our business activities, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or issuing equity. We may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. Our operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain required financial assurance, or if the costs of financial assurance increase materially. Federal and state laws require financial assurance to secure our permit obligations including to reclaim lands used for mining, to pay federal and state workers compensation and black lung benefits, and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. The changes in the market for coal used to generate electricity in recent years have led to bankruptcies involving prominent coal producers. Several of these companies relied on self bonding to guarantee their responsibilities under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 ( SMCRA ) permits including for reclamation. In response to these bankruptcies, the OSMRE issued a Policy Advisory in August 2016 to state agencies that are authorized under the SMCRA to implement the act in their states. Certain states, including Virginia, had previously announced that it would no longer accept self bonding to secure reclamation obligations under the state mining laws. This Policy Advisory is intended to discourage authorized states from approving self bonding arrangements and may lead to increased demand for other forms of financial assurance, which may strain capacity for those instruments and increase our costs of obtaining and maintaining the amounts of financial assurance needed for our operations. In addition, OSMRE announced in August 2016 that it would initiate a rulemaking under SMCRA to revise the requirements for self bonding in light of changes in the coal mining industry and the market. Individually and collectively, revised various financial assurance requirements may increase the amounts of needed financial assurance and limit the types of acceptable instruments and strain the capacity of the surety markets to meet demand, which may delay the timing for and increase the costs of obtaining this financial assurance. Our lessees use surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. If, in the future, our lessees are unable to secure surety bonds for these obligations and are forced to secure letters of credit indefinitely or obtain some other form of financial assurance at too high of a cost, they may not be able to obtain permits and production on our properties could be adversely affected. This negative effect could have a material adverse effect on the payments we receive from our lessees, which could affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our mines are located in areas containing oil and natural gas operations, which may require us to coordinate our operations with those of oil and natural gas drillers. Our coal reserves are in areas containing developed or undeveloped oil and natural gas deposits and reservoirs, including the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania, and our Virginia reserves are currently the subject of substantial oil and natural gas exploration and production activities, including by horizontal drilling. If we have received a permit for our mining activities, then, while we will have to coordinate our mining with such oil and natural gas drillers, our mining activities are expected to have priority over any oil and natural gas drillers with respect to the land covered by our permit. For reserves outside of our permits, we expect to engage in discussions with drilling companies on potential areas on which they can drill that may have a minimal effect on our mine plan. Depending on priority of interests, our operations may have to avoid existing oil and gas wells or expend sums to plug oil and gas wells. 30 Table of Contents If a well is in the path of our mining for coal on land that has not yet been permitted for our mining activities, we may not be able to mine through the well unless we purchase it. The cost of purchasing a producing horizontal or vertical well could be substantial. Horizontal wells with multiple laterals extending from the well pad may access larger oil and natural gas reserves than a vertical well, which would typically result in a higher cost to acquire. The cost associated with purchasing oil and natural gas wells that are in the path of our coal mining activities may make mining through those wells uneconomical, thereby effectively causing a loss of significant portions of our coal reserves, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Defects in title or loss of any leasehold interests in our properties could limit our ability to conduct mining operations on these properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. We conduct a significant part of our mining operations on properties that we lease. A title defect or the loss of any lease upon expiration of its term, upon a default or otherwise, could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated reserves and or process the coal we mine. Title to most of our owned or leased properties and mineral rights is not usually verified until we make a commitment to develop a property, which may not occur until after we have obtained necessary permits and completed exploration of the property. In some cases, we rely on title information or representations and warranties provided by our lessors or grantors. Our right to mine some of our reserves may be adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist or if a lease expires. Any challenge to our title or leasehold interests could delay the exploration and development of the property and could ultimately result in the loss of some or all of our interest in the property and, accordingly, require us to reduce our estimated coal reserves. Mining operations from time to time may rely on an expired lease that we are unable to renew. If we were to be in default with respect to leases for properties on which we have mining operations, we may have to close down or significantly alter the sequence of such mining operations, which may adversely affect our future coal production and future revenues. If we mine on property that we do not own or lease, we could incur liability for such mining. In any such case, the investigation and resolution of title issues would divert management time from our business and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, if we lose any leasehold interests relating to any preparation plants, we may need to find an alternative location to process our coal and load it for delivery to customers, which could result in significant unanticipated costs. In order to obtain leases or mining contracts to conduct our mining operations on property where these defects exist, we may in the future have to incur unanticipated costs. In addition, we may not be able to successfully negotiate new leases or mining contracts for properties containing additional reserves or maintain our leasehold interests in properties where we have not commenced mining operations during the term of the lease. Some leases have minimum production requirements. Failure to meet those requirements could result in losses of prepaid royalties and, in some rare cases, could result in a loss of the lease itself. Substantially all of our mining properties are leased from our affiliates and conflicts of interest with our Existing Owners may arise in the future as a result. Substantially all of our properties, except those controlled by us at or near Knox Creek and a minor lease at Elk Creek, are leased or subleased to our subsidiaries from entities controlled by Ramaco Coal, LLC, which shares some common ownership with us. Additionally, RAMACO Central Appalachia, LLC ( RCA ) and RAMACO Resources, LLC entered into mutual cooperation agreements concerning the Elk Creek property and Berwind coal reserve, requiring each party to notify the other in the event that such party acquires an interest in real property adjacent to or contiguous with the Elk Creek property or Berwind coal reserve, respectively. RAMACO Northern Appalachia, LLC ( RNA ) and RAM Mining, LLC entered into a mutual cooperation agreement concerning the RAM Mine property, requiring each party to notify the other in the event that such party acquires an interest in real property in Pennsylvania that contains coal or mining rights. We believe these arrangements are on an arm length basis. However, prior to our IPO, we did not have a formal board policy in place for approval of related party transactions, or an audit committee. Given the common ownership between Ramaco Coal, LLC and us and the complex contractual obligations under these arrangements, conflicts could arise between us and Ramaco Coal, LLC and the Existing Owners (including our Executive Chairman and our Chief Executive Officer and President). While we have an audit committee and formal related party transaction policy, a conflict may arise which could adversely affect the interests of our stockholders, including, without limitation, conflicts involving compliance with payment and performance obligations under existing leases, and negotiation of the terms of and performance under additional leases we may enter into with Ramaco Coal, LLC or its subsidiaries or affiliates in the future. For example, if a title defect were identified with respect to a property under lease or sublease from our affiliates, we may need to seek return of royalty payments or set off other payments due to such entities. Such a conflict could distract our management and could result in disputes with our affiliates. 31 Table of Contents While n1 of our employees who conduct mining operations are currently members of unions, our business could be adversely affected by union activities. We are not subject to any collective bargaining or union agreement with respect to properties we currently control. However, it is possible that future employees, or those of our contract miners, who conduct mining operations may join or seek recognition to form a labor union or may be required to become a labor agreement signatory. If some or all of the employees who conduct mining operations were to become unionized, it could adversely affect productivity, increase labor costs and increase the risk of work stoppages at our mines. If a work stoppage were to occur, it could interfere with operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. A shortage of skilled labor in the mining industry could pose a risk to achieving improved labor productivity, which could adversely affect our profitability. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled laborers, preferably with at least a year of experience and proficiency in multiple mining tasks. In the event there is a shortage of experienced labor, it could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our coal. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. The loss of our senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. There may be a limited number of persons with the requisite experience and skills to serve in our senior management positions. We may not be able to locate or employ qualified executives on acceptable terms. In addition, as our business develops and expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel with coal industry experience. We may not be able to continue to employ key personnel or attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Our failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively operate our business. Terrorist attacks or cyber incidents could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and or financial loss. Like most companies, we have become increasingly dependent upon digital technologies, including information systems, infrastructure and cloud applications and services, to operate our businesses, to process and record financial and operating data, communicate with our business partners, analyze mine and mining information, estimate quantities of coal reserves, as well as other activities related to our businesses. Strategic targets, such as energy related assets, may be at greater risk of future terrorist or cyber attacks than other targets in the United States. Deliberate attacks on, or security breaches in, our systems or infrastructure, or the systems or infrastructure of third parties, including systems that collect, organize, store or use personal data, or cloud based applications could lead to corruption or loss of our proprietary data and potentially sensitive data, delays in production or delivery, difficulty in completing and settling transactions, challenges in maintaining our books and records, environmental damage, communication interruptions, other operational disruptions and third party liability. Due to the nature of cyber attacks, breaches to our or our service or equipment providers' systems could go unnoticed for a prolonged period of time. Our insurance may not protect us against such occurrences. Consequently, it is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, as cyber incidents continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents. Failure to adequately protect critical data and technology systems and the impact of data privacy regulation could materially affect us. Information technology solution failures, ne2rk disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by causing delays or canceling or impeding processing of transactions and reporting financial results, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of employee, royalty owner, or other third party or our information, or damage to our reputation. There can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, new laws and regulations governing data privacy and the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information pose increasingly complex compliance challenges and potentially elevate costs, and any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in significant penalties and legal liability, require us to change our business practices, increase the costs and complexity of compliance, and adversely affect our business. As noted above, we are also subject to the possibility of cyber incidents or attacks, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. We may face restricted access to international markets in the future. Access to international markets may be subject to ongoing interruptions and trade barriers due to policies and tariffs of individual countries, and the actions of certain interest groups to restrict the import or export of certain commodities. There can be no assurance that our access to these markets will not be restricted in the future. An inability for U.S. metallurgical coal suppliers to access international markets would likely result in an oversupply of metallurgical coal in the domestic market, resulting in a decrease in prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Future changes in tax legislation could have an adverse impact on our cash tax liabilities, results of operations or financial condition. On December 22, 2017, tax legislation commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ( TCJA ) was enacted. Among other things, the TCJA reduced the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and repealed the alternative minimum tax ( AMT ) beginning in 2018. The TCJA also generally (i) limits our annual deductions for interest expense to no more than 30% of our adjusted taxable income (plus 100% of our business interest income) for the year and (ii) permits us to offset only 80% (rather than 100%) of our taxable income with any net operating losses we generate after 2017. Given the large cut in the regular corporate income tax rate and the elimination of the AMT, we expect a significant reduction in the income taxes we will pay in the future compared to what we would have paid under prior law. Congress could, in the future, revise or repeal the changes made by the TCJA or enact other tax law changes, such as the elimination of tax preferences currently available with respect to coal exploration and development and the percentage depletion allowance, to help reduce budget deficits. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes will ultimately be enacted, but any such changes could have a material impact on our cash tax liabilities, results of operations or financial condition. 32 Table of Contents Risks Related to Environmental, Health, Safety and Other Regulations Laws and regulations restricting greenhouse gas emissions as well as uncertainty concerning such regulations could adversely impact the market for coal, increase our operating costs, and reduce the value of our coal assets. Climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention. There is widespread concern about the contributions of human activity to such changes, especially through the emission of GHGs. There are 3 primary sources of GHGs associated with the coal industry. First, the end use of our coal by our customers in electricity generation, coke plants, and steelmaking is a source of GHGs. Second, combustion of fuel by equipment used in coal production and to transport our coal to our customers is a source of GHGs. Third, coal mining itself can release methane, which is considered to be a more potent GHG than CO2, directly into the atmosphere. These emissions from coal consumption, transportation and production are subject to pending and proposed regulation as part of initiatives to address global climate change. As a result, numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of GHGs. Collectively, these initiatives could result in higher electric costs to our customers or lower the demand for coal used in electric generation, which could in turn adversely impact our business. They could also result in direct regulation of the GHGs produced by our operations. See Business Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters Global Climate Change. At present, we are principally focused on metallurgical coal production, which is not used in connection with the production of power generation. However, we may seek to sell greater amounts of our coal into the power generation market in the future. The market for our coal may be adversely impacted if comprehensive legislation or regulations focusing on GHG emission reductions are adopted, or if our customers are unable to obtain financing for their operations. The uncertainty over the outcome of litigation challenging the CPP or its replacement, if any, and the extent of future regulation of GHG emissions may inhibit utilities from investing in the building of new coal fired plants to replace older plants or investing in the upgrading of existing coal fired plants. Any reduction in the amount of coal consumed by electric power generators as a result of actual or potential regulation of GHG emissions could decrease demand for our coal, thereby reducing our revenues and materially and adversely affecting our business and results of operations. We or prospective customers may also have to invest in CO2 capture and storage technologies in order to burn coal and comply with future GHG emission standards. Finally, there have been attempts to encourage greater regulation of coalbed methane because methane has a greater GHG effect than CO2 Methane from coal mines can give rise to safety concerns and can require various measures be taken to mitigate those risks. If new laws or regulations were introduced to reduce coalbed methane emissions, those rules could adversely affect our costs of operations by requiring installation of air pollution controls, higher taxes, or additional costs incurred to purchase credits that permit us to continue operations. New laws or regulations could also potentially require that we curtail coal production. Current and future government laws, regulations and other legal requirements relating to protection of the environment and natural resources may increase our costs of doing business and may restrict our coal operations. We and our potential customers are subject to stringent and complex laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted by federal, state and local authorities relating to protection of the environment and natural resources. These include those legal requirements that govern discharges or emissions of materials into the environment, the management and disposal of substances and wastes, including hazardous wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, threatened and endangered plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, mitigation and restoration of streams or other waters, the protection of drinking water, assessment of the environmental impacts of mining, monitoring and reporting requirements, the installation of various safety equipment in our mines, remediation of impacts of surface subsidence from underground mining, and work practices related to employee health and safety. See Business Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters. Examples include laws and regulations relating to employee health and safety; emissions to air and discharges to water; plant and wildlife protection, including endangered species protections; the reclamation and restoration of properties after mining or other activity has been completed; limitations on land use; mine permitting and licensing requirements; the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes; air quality standards; water pollution; protection of human health, plant life and wildlife, including endangered and threatened species; protection of wetlands; the discharge of materials into the environment; remediation of contaminated soil, surface and groundwater; and the effects of operations on surface water and groundwater quality and availability. 33 Table of Contents Complying with these environmental and employee health and safety requirements, including the terms of our permits, has had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our costs of operations. In addition, there is the possibility that we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of environmental laws, judicial interpretations of or rulings on environmental laws or permits, or in connection with the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination. For example, the EPA and several of the states where we operate have, or intend to, propose revised recommended criteria for discharges of selenium regulated under the CWA, which may be more stringent than current criteria. Any additional laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local authorities, or new interpretations of existing legal requirements by regulatory bodies relating to the protection of the environment, including those related to discharges of selenium, could further affect our costs or limit our operations. See Business Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters. Our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations currently use hazardous materials and generate limited quantities of hazardous wastes from time to time. Drainage flowing from or caused by mining activities can be acidic with elevated levels of dissolved metals, a condition referred to as acid mine drainage, or may include other pollutants requiring treatment. We could become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages as well as for the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media. Such claims may arise, for example, out of conditions at sites that we currently own or operate, as well as at sites that we previously owned or operated, or may acquire. Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or for the entire share. We maintain coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments as necessary. Such areas and impoundments are subject to extensive regulation. Structural failure of a slurry impoundment or coal refuse area could result in extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, such as bodies of water that the coal slurry reaches, as well as liability for related personal injuries and property damages, and injuries to wildlife. If an impoundment were to fail, we could be subject to claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties. Our coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments are designed, constructed, and inspected by our company and by regulatory authorities according to stringent environmental and safety standards. We must obtain, maintain, and renew governmental permits and approvals for mining operations, which can be a costly and time consuming process and result in restrictions on our operations. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations. Our operations are principally regulated under permits issued pursuant to SMCRA and the federal CWA. State and federal regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time consuming and may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. In addition, we may be required to prepare and present to permitting or other regulatory authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that proposed exploration for or production of coal might have on the environment. Our coal production is dependent upon our ability to obtain various federal and state permits and approvals to mine our coal reserves. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex, change frequently, and are often subject to discretionary interpretations by regulators, all of which may make compliance more difficult or impractical, and which may possibly preclude the continuance of ongoing mine development or operations or the development of future mining operations. The pace with which the government issues permits needed for new operations and for ongoing operations to continue mining, particularly CWA permits, can be time consuming and subject to delays and denials. These delays or denials of environmental permits needed for mining could reduce our production and materially adversely impact our cash flow and results of operations. For example, prior to placing fill material in waters of the United States, such as with the construction of a valley fill, coal mining companies are required to obtain a permit from the Corps under Section 404 of the CWA. The permit can be either a Nation Wide Permit ( NWP ), normally NWP 21, 49 or 50 for coal mining activities, or a more complicated individual permit. NWPs are designed to allow for an expedited permitting process, while individual permits involve a longer and more detailed review process. The EPA has the authority to veto permits issued by the Corps under the CWA Section 404 program that prohibits the discharge of dredged or fill material into regulated waters without a permit. 34 Table of Contents Prior to discharging any pollutants to waters of the United States, coal mining companies must obtain a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System ( NPDES ) permit from the appropriate state or federal permitting authority. NPDES permits include effluent limitations for discharged pollutants and other terms and conditions, including required monitoring of discharges. Changes and proposed changes in state and federally recommended water quality standards may result in the issuance or modification of permits with new or more stringent effluent limits or terms and conditions. See Business Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters Clean Water Act. Further, the public has certain statutory rights to comment on and submit objections to requested permits and environmental impact statements prepared in connection with applicable regulatory processes, and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including bringing citizens claims to challenge the issuance or renewal of permits, the validity of environmental impact statements or performance of mining activities. For example, Fair Shake Environmental Legal Services and private individuals have expressed opposition to our RAM No. 1 mine through comments submitted to the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection asserting deficiencies in the Company permit application. As a result of challenges like these, the permits we need may not be issued or renewed in a timely fashion or issued or renewed at all, or permits issued or renewed may not be maintained, may be challenged or may be conditi1d in a manner that may restrict our ability to efficiently and economically conduct our mining activities, any of which would materially reduce our production, cash flow, and profitability. Permitting rules may also require, under certain circumstances, that we obtain surface owner consent if the surface estate has been severed from the mineral estate. This could require us to negotiate with third parties for surface access that overlies coal we acquired or intend to acquire. These negotiations can be costly and time consuming, lasting years in some instances, which can create additional delays in the permitting process. If we cannot successfully negotiate for land access, we could be denied a permit to mine coal we already own. We and our significant stockholders are subject to the Applicant Violator System. Under SMCRA and its state law counterparts, all coal mining applications must include mandatory ownership and control information, which generally includes listing the names of our officers and directors, and our principal stockholders owning 10 percent or more of our voting shares, among others. Ownership and control reporting requirements are designed to allow regulatory review of any entities or persons deemed to have ownership or control of a coal mine, and bars the granting of a coal mining permit to any such entity or person (including any owner and controller ) who has had a mining permit revoked or suspended, or a bond or similar security forfeited within the five year period preceding a permit application or application for a permit revision. Regulatory agencies also block the issuance of permits to an applicant who, or whose owner and controller, has permit violations outstanding that have not been timely abated. A federal database, known as the Applicant Violator System ( AVS ), is maintained for this purpose. Certain relationships are presumed to constitute ownership or control, including the following being an officer or director of an entity; being the operator of the coal mining operation; having the ability to commit the financial or real property assets or working resources of the permittee or operator; based on the instruments of ownership or the voting securities of a corporate entity, owning of record 10% or more of the mining operator, among others. This presumption, in most cases, can be rebutted where the person or entity can demonstrate that it in fact does not or did not have authority directly or indirectly to determine the manner in which the relevant coal mining operation is conducted. An ownership and control notice must be filed by us each time an entity obtains a 10% or greater interest in us. If we have unabated violations of SMCRA or its state law counterparts, have a coal mining permit suspended or revoked, or forfeit a reclamation bond, we and our owners and controllers, as discussed above, may be prohibited from obtaining new coal mining permits, or amendments to existing permits, until such violations of law are corrected. This is known as being permit blocked. Additionally, Yorktown, Atkins and Bauersachs are currently deemed an owner or controller of a number of other mining companies, as such, we could be permit blocked based upon the violations of or permit blocked status of an owner or controller of us. This could adversely affect production from our properties. We may be subject to additional limitations on our ability to conduct mining operations due to federal jurisdiction. We may conduct some underground mining activities on properties that are within the designated boundary of federally protected lands or national forests where the above menti1d restrictions within the meaning of SMCRA could apply. Federal court decisions could pose a potential restriction on underground mining within 100 feet of a public road as well as other restrictions. If these SMCRA restrictions ultimately apply to underground mining, considerable uncertainty would exist about the nature and extent of this restriction. While it could remain possible to obtain permits for underground mining operations in these areas even where this 100 foot restriction was applied, the time and expense of that permitting process would be likely to increase significantly, and the restrictions placed on the mining of those properties could adversely affect our costs. 35 Table of Contents Our prospective customers are subject to extensive existing and future government laws, regulations and other legal requirements relating to protection of the environment, which could negatively impact our business and the market for our products. Coal contains impurities, including sulfur, mercury, chlorine and other elements or compounds, many of which are released into the air when coal is burned. Complying with regulations to address these emissions can be costly for our customers. For example, in order to meet the CAA limits for sulfur dioxide emissions from electric power plants, coal users must install costly pollution control devices, use sulfur dioxide emission allowances (some of which they may purchase), or switch to other fuels. Recent EPA rulemakings requiring additional reductions in permissible emission levels for coal fired plants will likely make it more costly to operate coal fired electric power plants and may make coal a less attractive fuel for electric power generation in the future. For example, the EPA Cross State Air Pollution Rule ( CSAPR ) is 1 of a number of significant regulations that the EPA has issued or expects to issue that will impose more stringent requirements relating to air, water and waste controls on electric generating units. These rules also include the EPA requirements for coal combustion residues management, which were finalized in December 2014 and further regulate the handling of wastes from the combustion of coal. In addition, the EPA has formally adopted a revised final rule to reduce emissions of toxic air pollutants from power plants. More costly and stringent environmental regulations could adversely impact the operations of our customers, which could in turn adversely impact our business. A number of coal fired power plants, particularly smaller and older plants, already have retired or announced that they will retire rather than retrofit to meet the obligations of these rules. Additional retirements of coal fired power plants by prospective customers could further decrease demand for thermal coal and reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and results of operations. See Business Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters. In addition, considerable uncertainty is associated with air emissions initiatives. New regulations are in the process of being developed, and many existing and potential regulatory initiatives are subject to review by federal or state agencies or the courts. More stringent air emissions limitations are either in place or are likely to be imposed in the short to medium term, and these limitations will likely require significant emissions control expenditures for many coal fired power plants. As a result, some of our prospective customers may switch to other fuels that generate fewer of these emissions or may install more effective pollution control equipment that reduces the need for low sulfur coal. Any further switching of fuel sources away from coal, closure of existing coal fired power plants, or reduced construction of new coal fired power plants could have a material adverse effect on demand for, and prices received for, our coal. In addition, our coke plant and steelmaking customers may face increased operational costs as a result of higher electric costs. Apart from actual and potential regulation of air emissions and solid wastes from coal fired plants, state and federal mandates for increased use of electricity from renewable energy sources could have an impact on the market for our coal. Several states have enacted legislative mandates requiring electricity suppliers to use renewable energy sources to generate a certain percentage of power. Possible advances in technologies and incentives, such as tax credits, to enhance the economics of renewable energy sources could make these sources more competitive with coal. Any reductions in the amount of coal consumed by electric power generators as a result of current or new standards for the emission of impurities, or current or new incentives to switch to renewable fuels or renewable energy sources, such as the CPP and various state programs, could reduce the demand for our coal, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely affecting our business, cash flows, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Environmental activism and initiatives aimed at limiting climate change and a reduction of air pollutants could interfere with our business activities, operations and ability to access capital sources. Participants in the coal mining industry are frequently targeted by environmental activist groups that openly attempt to disrupt the industry. For example, Greenpeace International filed a letter with the SEC alleging that 1 coal mining company filings relating to a proposed public offering of securities may contain incomplete and misleading disclosures regarding the risks of investing in the coal market. On another occasion, the Sierra Club sent a letter to the SEC stating that it believed a coal mining company may be giving potential investors false impressions regarding risks to its business. Other groups have objected to our RAM No. 1 mine permit application in Pennsylvania. It is possible that we could continue to be the target of similar actions in the future, including when we attempt to grow our business through acquisitions or commence new mining operations. If that were to happen, our ability to operate our business or raise capital could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, there have also been efforts in recent years to influence the investment community, including investment advisors, sovereign wealth funds, public pension funds, universities and other groups, promoting the divestment of fossil fuel equities and also pressuring lenders to limit funding to companies engaged in the extraction of fossil fuel reserves. In California, for example, legislation was signed into law in October 2015 that requires California state pension funds to divest investments in companies that generate 50% or more of their revenue from coal mining by July 2017. Several large investment banks also announced that they had adopted climate change guidelines for lenders. The guidelines require the evaluation of carbon risks in the financing of electric power generation plants, which may make it more difficult for utilities to obtain financing for coal fired plants. Other activist campaigns have urged banks to cease financing coal driven businesses. As a result, at least ten major banks enacted such policies in 2015. The impact of such efforts may adversely affect the demand for and price of securities issued by us and impact our access to the capital and financial markets. In addition, several well funded non governmental organizations have explicitly undertaken campaigns to minimize or eliminate mining and the use of coal as a source of electricity generation. The net effect of these developments is to make it more costly and difficult to maintain our business and to continue to depress the market for coal. 36 Table of Contents Our mines are subject to stringent federal and state safety regulations that increase our cost of doing business at active operations and may place restrictions on our methods of operation. In addition, government inspectors in certain circumstances may have the ability to order our operations to be shut down based on safety considerations. The Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (the Mine Act ) and Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act (the MINER Act ), and regulations issued under these federal statutes, impose stringent health and safety standards on mining operations. The regulations that have been adopted under the Mine Act and the MINER Act are comprehensive and affect numerous aspects of mining operations, including training of mine personnel, mining procedures, roof control, ventilation, blasting, use and maintenance of mining equipment, dust and noise control, communications, emergency response procedures, and other matters. MSHA regularly inspects mines to ensure compliance with regulations promulgated under the Mine Act and MINER Act. In addition, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Virginia all have similar programs for mine safety and health regulation and enforcement. The various requirements mandated by federal and state statutes, rules, and regulations may place restrictions on our methods of operation and potentially result in fees and civil penalties for violations of such requirements or criminal liability for the knowing violation of such standards, significantly impacting operating costs and productivity. In addition, government inspectors have the authority to issue orders to shut down our operations based on safety considerations under certain circumstances, such as imminent dangers, accidents, failures to abate violations, and unwarrantable failures to comply with mandatory safety standards. See Business Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters Mine Safety and Health. The regulations enacted under the Mine Act and MINER Act as well as under similar state acts are routinely expanded, raising compliance costs and increasing potential liability. For example, in 2014, MSHA finalized a new rule limiting miners exposure to respirable coal dust. The first phase of the rule went into effect as of August 1, 2014, and requires, among other things, single shift sampling to determine noncompliance and corrective action to remedy any excessive levels of dust. The next phase of the rule went into effect as of February 1, 2016 and requires increased sampling frequency and the use of continuous personal dust monitors. This and other future mine safety rules could potentially result in or require significant expenditures, as well as additional safety training and planning, enhanced safety equipment, more frequent mine inspections, stricter enforcement practices and enhanced reporting requirements. At this time, it is not possible to predict the full effect that new or proposed statutes, regulations and policies will have on our operating costs, but any expansion of existing regulations, or making such regulations more stringent may have a negative impact on the profitability of our operations. If we were to be found in violation of mine safety and health regulations, we could face penalties or restrictions that may materially and adversely impact our operations, financial results and liquidity. We must also compensate employees for work related injuries. State workers compensation acts typically provide for an exception to an employer immunity from civil lawsuits for workplace injuries in the case of intentional torts. In such situations, an injured worker would be able to bring suit against his or her employer for damages in excess of workers compensation benefits. In addition, West Virginia workers compensation act provides a much broader exception to workers compensation immunity, allowing an injured employee to recover against his or her employer if he or she can show damages caused by an unsafe working condition of which the employer was aware and that was a violation of a statute, regulation, rule or consensus industry standard. These types of lawsuits are not uncommon and could have a significant effect on our operating costs. We have obtained from a third party insurer a workers compensation insurance policy, which includes coverage for medical and disability benefits for black lung disease under the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969 and the Mine Act, as amended. We perform periodic evaluations of our black lung liability, using assumptions regarding rates of successful claims, discount factors, benefit increases and mortality rates, among others. Of note, the Affordable Care Act of 2010 significantly amended the black lung provisions of the Mine Act by reenacting 2 provisions, which had been eliminated in 1981 Under the amendments, a miner with at least fifteen years of underground coal mine employment (or surface mine employment with similar dust exposure) who can prove that he suffers from a totally disabling respiratory condition is entitled to a rebuttable presumption that his disability is caused by black lung. The other amendment provides that the surviving spouse of a miner who was collecting federal black lung benefits at the time of his death is entitled to a continuation of those benefits. These changes could have a material impact on our costs expended in association with the federal black lung program. We have reclamation, mine closing, and related environmental obligations under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. SMCRA establishes operational, reclamation and closure standards for our mining operations. SMCRA requires that comprehensive environmental protection and reclamation standards be met during the course of and following completion of mining activities. Permits for all mining operations must be obtained from the OSMRE or, where state regulatory agencies have adopted federally approved state programs under SMCRA, the appropriate state regulatory authority. Our operations are located in states which have achieved primary jurisdiction for enforcement of SMCRA through approved state programs. See Business Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters. 37 Table of Contents In December 2016, OSMRE published the final version of the Stream Protection Rule. The rule became effective in January 2017 but was subsequently disapproved pursuant to the Congressional Review Act ( CRA ). The rule would have impacted both surface and underground mining operations by imposing stricter guidelines on conducting coal mining operations within buffer z1s and increasing testing and monitoring requirements related to the quality or quantity of surface water and groundwater or the biological condition of streams. The Stream Protection Rule would also have required the collection of increased premining data about the site of the proposed mining operation and adjacent areas to establish a baseline for evaluation of the impacts of mining and the effectiveness of reclamation associated with returning streams to premining conditions. Both the House and Senate passed a resolution in February 2017 disapproving of the Stream Protection Rule pursuant to the Congressional Review Act ( CRA ). President Trump signed the resolution on February 16, 2017 and, pursuant to the CRA, the Stream Protection Rule shall have no force or effect and cannot be replaced by a similar rule absent future legislation. OSMRE published a Federal Register notice on November 17, 2017, that removed the text of the Stream Protection Rule from the Code of Federal Regulations. Whether Congress will enact future legislation to require a new Stream Protection Rule remains uncertain. If a similar rule were enacted in the future, our mining operations could face significant operating restrictions, as well as increased monitoring and restoration costs. In addition, SMCRA imposes a reclamation fee on all current mining operations, the proceeds of which are deposited in the Aband1d Mine Reclamation Fund ( AML Fund ), which is used to restore unreclaimed and aband1d mine lands mined before 1977. The current per ton fee is $0.28 per ton for surface mined coal and $0.12 per ton for underground mined coal. These fees are currently scheduled to be in effect until September 30, 2021 We accrue for the costs of current mine disturbance and of final mine closure, including the cost of treating mine water discharge where necessary. The amounts recorded are dependent upon a number of variables, including the estimated future closure costs, estimated proven reserves, assumptions involving profit margins, inflation rates, and the assumed credit adjusted risk free interest rates. If these accruals are insufficient or our liability in a particular year is greater than currently anticipated, our future operating results could be adversely affected. We are also required to post bonds for the cost of a coal mine as a condition of our mining activities. Risks Related to Our Company Our ability to pay dividends may be limited by the amount of cash we generate from operations following the payment of fees and expenses, by restrictions in any future debt instruments and by additional factors unrelated to our profitability. We may pay special and regular quarterly dividends in the future. The declaration and payment of dividends, if any, is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and the requirements of applicable law. The timing and amount of any dividends declared will depend on, among other things (a) our earnings, earnings outlook financial condition, cash flow, cash requirements and outlook on current and future market conditions, (b) our liquidity, including our ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms, (c) restrictive covenants in any future debt instruments and (d) provisions of applicable law governing the payment of dividends. The metallurgical coal industry is highly volatile, and we cannot predict with certainty the amount of cash, if any, that will be available for distribution as dividends in any period. Also, there may be a high degree of variability from period to period in the amount of cash, if any, that is available for the payment of dividends. The amount of cash we generate from operations and the actual amount of cash we will have available for dividends will vary based upon, among other things the development of our properties into producing coal mines; the ability to begin generating significant revenues and operating cash flows; the market price for coal; overall domestic and global economic conditions, including the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal, coke and steel; unexpected operational events or geological conditions; cost overruns; our ability to enter into agreements governing the sale of coal, which are generally short term in nature and subject to fluctuations in market pricing; the level of our operating costs; prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; changes in interest rates; the impact of domestic and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including environmental and climate change regulations and regulations affecting the coal mining industry; delays in the receipt of, failure to receive, failure to maintain or revocation of necessary governmental permits; modification or revocation of our dividend policy by our board of directors; and the amount of any cash reserves established by our board of directors. The amount of cash we generate from our operations may differ materially from our net income or loss for the period, which will be affected by non cash Item. We may incur other expenses or liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends. 38 Table of Contents In addition, any future financing agreements may prohibit the payment of dividends if an event of default has occurred and is continuing or would occur as a result of the payment of such dividends. In addition, Section 170 of the Delaware General Corporation Law ( DGCL ) allows our board of directors to declare and pay dividends on the shares of our common stock either (i) out of our surplus, as defined in and computed in accordance with the DGCL or (ii) in case there shall be no such surplus, out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and or the preceding fiscal year. We may not have sufficient surplus or net profits in the future to pay dividends, and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient funds, surplus or net profits to make distributions to us. As a result of these and the other factors menti1d above, we can give no assurance that dividends will be paid in the future. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements that apply to other public companies, including those relating to auditing standards and disclosure about our executive compensation. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for emerging growth companies, including certain requirements relating to auditing standards and compensation disclosure. We are classified as an emerging growth company. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be as late as our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2022, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to, among other things, (1) provide an auditor attestation report on management assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, (2) comply with any new requirements adopted by the PCAOB requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer, (3) comply with any new audit rules adopted by the PCAOB after April 5, 2012 unless the SEC determines otherwise or (4) provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies. In addition, Section 102 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can use the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. An emerging growth company can therefore delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we chose to opt out of such extended transition period, and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), and the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, may strain our resources, increase our costs and consume management attention, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost effective manner. As a public company, we need to comply with new laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, related regulations of the SEC and the requirements of the NASDAQ, with which we were not required to comply as a private company. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements occupies a significant amount of time for our board of directors and management and significantly increases our costs and expenses. We need to institute a more comprehensive compliance function; comply with rules promulgated by the NASDAQ; continue to prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws; establish new internal policies, such as those relating to insider trading; and involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities. Furthermore, while we generally must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, we are not required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until our first annual report subsequent to our ceasing to be an emerging growth company within the meaning of Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act. Accordingly, we may not be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until as late as our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2022 Once it is required to do so, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed. Compliance with these requirements may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost effective manner. In addition, being a public company subject to these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. 39 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to maintain our internal controls will be successful or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 Any failure to maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Our significant stockholders have the ability to direct the voting of a majority of the voting power of our common stock, and their interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders. Our significant stockholders own approximately 81% of our common stock. As a result, our significant stockholders are able to control matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, changes to our organizational documents and significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership makes it unlikely that any other holder or group of holders of our common stock will be able to affect the way we are managed or the direction of our business. The interests of our significant stockholders with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us, such as future acquisitions, financings and other corporate opportunities and attempts to acquire us, may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Given this concentrated ownership, our significant stockholders would have to approve any potential acquisition of us. In addition, certain of our directors are currently employees of our significant stockholders. These directors duties as employees of our significant stockholders may conflict with their duties as our directors, and the resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our or your best interest. Furthermore, we entered into a stockholders agreement with the significant stockholders in connection with our initial public offering. Among other things, the stockholders agreement provides certain funds affiliated with and or managed by Yorktown and ECP with the right to designate a certain number of nominees to our board of directors until the later of (i) the time at which such stockholder no longer has the right to designate an individual for nomination to the board of directors under the stockholders agreement, and (ii) the time at which the significant stockholders cease to hold in aggregate at least 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. The existence of a significant stockholder and the stockholders agreement may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in our best interests. Our significant stockholders concentration of stock ownership may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock to the extent investors perceive a disadvantage in owning stock of a company with significant stockholders. Certain of our directors have significant duties with, and spend significant time serving, entities that may compete with us in seeking acquisitions and business opportunities and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating time or pursuing business opportunities. Certain of our directors, who are responsible for managing the direction of our operations and acquisition activities, hold positions of responsibility with other entities (including Yorktown and ECP affiliated entities) that are in the business of identifying and acquiring coal reserves. The existing positions held by these directors may give rise to fiduciary or other duties that are in conflict with the duties they owe to us. These directors may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as to the other entities with which they are or may become affiliated. Due to these existing and potential future affiliations, they may present potential business opportunities to other entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. They may also decide that certain opportunities are more appropriate for other entities with which they are affiliated, and as a result, they may elect not to present those opportunities to us. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. For additional discussion of our management business affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest of which our stockholders should be aware, see Certain Relationships and Related Persons Transactions. 40 Table of Contents Our significant stockholders and their affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us, and the corporate opportunity provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation could enable our significant stockholders to benefit from corporate opportunities that might otherwise be available to us. Our governing documents provide that our significant stockholders and their affiliates (including portfolio investments of our significant stockholders and their affiliates) are not restricted from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In particular, subject to the limitations of applicable law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, among other things permits our significant stockholders and their affiliates and our non employee directors to conduct business that competes with us and to make investments in any kind of property in which we may make investments; and provides that if our significant stockholders or their affiliates or any director or officer of 1 of our affiliates, or our non employee directors, our significant stockholders or their affiliates who is also 1 of our directors, or our non employee directors, becomes aware of a potential business opportunity, transaction or other matter, they will have no duty to communicate or offer that opportunity to us. Our significant stockholders or their affiliates, or our non employee directors, may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities (such as acquisition opportunities) and may direct such opportunities to other businesses in which they have invested, in which case we may not become aware of or otherwise have the ability to pursue such opportunity. Further, such businesses may choose to compete with us for these opportunities, possibly causing these opportunities to not be available to us or causing them to be more expensive for us to pursue. In addition, our significant stockholders and their affiliates, or our non employee directors, may dispose of coal properties or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, our renouncing our interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that may be from time to time presented to our significant stockholders and their affiliates, or our non employee directors, could adversely impact our business or prospects if attractive business opportunities are procured by such parties for their own benefit rather than for ours. Each of our significant stockholders has resources greater than ours, which may make it more difficult for us to compete with our significant stockholders with respect to commercial activities as well as for potential acquisitions. We cannot assure you that any conflicts that may arise between us and our stockholders, on the 1 hand, and our significant stockholders, on the other hand, will be resolved in our favor. As a result, competition from our significant stockholders and their affiliates could adversely impact our results of operations. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders, including limitations on the removal of directors; limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; establishing advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders; providing that the board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our bylaws; and establishing advance notice and certain information requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the DGCL ), our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, 1 or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 41 Table of Contents We are a controlled company within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules and, as a result, qualify for and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Yorktown beneficially owns a majority of our outstanding voting interests. As a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the NASDAQ corporate governance standards. Under the NASDAQ rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; we have a nominating and governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee purpose and responsibilities; and we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee purpose and responsibilities. These requirements will not apply to us as long as we remain a controlled company. We intend to continue to utilize some or all of these exemptions. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NASDAQ. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments N1 Item 2 Properties
