CIK: 1704715
Company Name: CONTURA ENERGY INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-04-01
Accession Number: 0001704715-19-000013


Item 1 Business Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, references in this Business section to the combined company, we, us and other similar terms refer to Contura Energy, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries after giving effect to the Merger. Our Company We are a large scale, diversified provider of met and thermal coal to a global customer base. We operate high quality, cost competitive coal mines across coal basins in Virginia, West Virginia and Pennsylvania, complemented by a Trading and Logistics business. Our portfolio of mining operations consists of twenty 3 underground mines, nine surface mines and twelve coal preparation plants. To supplement mining operations, we operate a Trading and Logistics business that focuses on the sale of third party coal into the international market. We own a 65.0% interest in the Dominion Terminal Associates ( DTA ), a coal export terminal in eastern Virginia. DTA provides us with the ability to fulfill a broad range of customer coal quality requirements through coal blending, while also providing storage capacity and transportation flexibility. We produce a diverse mix of coal products, which enables us to satisfy a broad range of customer needs across all our operations. In the Central Appalachia ( CAPP ) coal basin, we predominantly produce low ash metallurgical ( met ) coal, including High Vol. A, High Vol. B, Mid Vol., and Low Vol., which are shipped to domestic and international coke and steel producers. In the CAPP coal basin, we also produce low sulfur, high British thermal unit ( BTU ) thermal coal for electricity generation, as well as specialty coal for industrial customers. In the Northern Appalachia ( NAPP ) coal basin, we produce primarily high BTU thermal coal. This thermal coal has metallurgical properties, but it is higher in sulfur content than typical products sold in the metallurgical coal market. Limited volumes can be placed in the metallurgical coal market where customers have the flexibility to accommodate quantities of higher sulfur coal in their coking coal blends. Our thermal coal is primarily sold to the domestic power generation industry. We have four reportable segments CAPP Met, CAPP Thermal, NAPP, and Trading and Logistics. See Note 28 for more information about our reportable segments. We have a substantial reserve base of 885.5 million tons of proven reserves and approximately 4629 million tons of probable reserves, which we believe could support current production levels for more than 35 years based on our 2018 production levels. Our reserve base in CAPP Met consists of 438.9 million tons of proven and 207.7 million tons of probable reserves, of which 94% is met coal. Our reserve base in CAPP Thermal consists of 26.7 million tons of proven and 231 million tons of probable reserves, of which 76% is thermal coal. Our reserve base in NAPP consists of 419.9 million tons of proven and 2321 million tons of probable reserves, of which 93% is thermal coal. Through our operations and reserves in 2 major U.S. coal producing basins, we are able to source coal from multiple mines to meet the needs of a long standing global customer base, many of which have been served by us or our predecessors for over a decade. We are continuously evaluating opportunities to strategically cultivate current relationships to drive new business in our target growth markets that include India and Southeast Asia, among others. In addition, our experienced management team continues to analyze acquisitions, joint ventures and other opportunities that would be accretive and synergistic to its existing asset portfolio. We have also identified organic met coal growth opportunities that can be developed in supportive pricing environments. Opportunities identified include Deep Mine #42 in CAPP Met, which could provide an incremental 10 15 million tons per year of Mid Vol. met coal; Freeport mine in NAPP, which could provide an incremental 25 35 million tons per year of primarily High Vol. B met coal; and Road Fork 52 in CAPP Met, which is primarily a reserve replacement mine, but could potentially provide incremental production of Low Vol. met coal in the near term. Production at these adjacent mines provides embedded growth potential while leveraging existing infrastructure. In addition, our operational footprint in multiple U.S. coal basins provides significant opportunities for potential synergies from domestic acquisitions. 7 Table of Contents Our History We were formed to acquire and operate certain of Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. ( Alpha ) core coal operations, as part of the Alpha Restructuring. We began operations on July 26, 2016 and currently operate mines in the Northern Appalachia and Central Appalachia regions. On December 8, 2017, we closed a transaction with Blackjewel L.L.C. ( Buyer or Blackjewel ) to sell the Eagle Butte and Belle Ayr mines located in the Powder River Basin ( PRB ), Wyoming, along with related coal reserves, equipment, infrastructure and other real properties. The PRB results of operations and financial position are reported as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The historical information in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements has been restated to reflect the effects of the PRB operations being reported as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 4 for further information on discontinued operations. We merged with Alpha Natural Resources Holdings, Inc. and ANR, Inc. on November 9, 2018. Refer to Note 3 for information on terms of the Merger Agreement. Upon the consummation of the transactions contemplated by a definitive merger agreement (the Merger Agreement ), our common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker CTRA. Previously, our shares traded on the OTC market under the ticker CNTE. Alpha Restructuring On August 3, 2015, Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. ( Predecessor Alpha ) and each of its wholly owned domestic subsidiaries other than ANR Second Receivables Funding LLC (collectively, the Alpha Debtors ) filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Virginia (the Bankruptcy Court ). The Bankruptcy Court approved the Alpha Debtors Plan of Reorganization on July 7, 2016. On July 26, 2016, a consortium of former creditors of the Alpha Debtors acquired Contura common stock in exchange for a partial release of their creditor claims pursuant to the Alpha Debtors bankruptcy settlement. The Alpha Debtors, collectively, were a coal producer with operations in Central Appalachia, Northern Appalachia, and the PRB. Contura entered into various settlement agreements with the Alpha Debtors, their bankruptcy successor, and third parties as part of the Alpha Debtors bankruptcy reorganization process. Contura assumed acquisition related obligations through those settlement agreements, which became effective on July 26, 2016, the effective date of the Alpha Debtors Plan of Reorganization. See Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of Contura Liquidity and Capital Resources Acquisition Related Obligations. ANR and Holdings were each incorporated in Delaware on June 13, 2016 in accordance with the Plan of Reorganization. On July 26, 2016, the effective date of the Plan of Reorganization, the Alpha Debtors emerged from bankruptcy, and ANR (in which Holdings held an equity investment) became the parent entity under the Plan of Reorganization. On October 23, 2017, Alpha transferred certain idle real properties and related assets located in Kentucky, Tennessee and West Virginia to Lexington Coal Company, LLC, pursuant to the terms of a Membership Interest and Asset Purchase Agreement. Operations and Properties The following tables present a summary of our mining operations by reportable segment Number & Type of Mines as of December 31, 2018 Segment Location Preparation Plants Shipping Points as of December 31, 2018 Underground Surface Total CAPP Met VA, WV McClure, Toms Creek, Bandmill, Kepler, Kingston, Litwar, Marfork, Power Mountain, Pax, Marmet, Delbarton 20 5 25 CAPP Thermal WV Delbarton, Inman Homer III, Mammoth, Marmet 2 4 6 NAPP PA Cumberland, Labelle 1 1 8 Table of Contents Segment Coal Qualities Transportation 2018 Production of Saleable Tons (in thousands) (1) CAPP Met High Vol. Met Truck, CSX Transportation, Norfolk Southern Railway Company, Barge 5,091 CAPP Thermal Thermal Truck, CSX Transportation, Norfolk Southern Railway Company, Barge 596 NAPP Thermal Truck, CSX Transportation, Norfolk Southern Railway Company, Barge 6,423 12,110 (1) Includes coal purchased from third party producers that was processed at our preparation plants in 2018. We consider Deep Mine 41 and Road Fork 52 in CAPP Met and Cumberland Mine in NAPP to be individually material mines. Road Fork 52 is primarily a reserve replacement mine, but could potentially provide incremental production of Low Vol. met coal in the near term. CAPP Met Our CAPP Met operations consist of high quality met coal mines, including Deep Mine 41 and Road Fork 52 The coal produced by CAPP Met operations is predominantly met coal with some amounts of thermal coal being produced as a byproduct of mining. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, our CAPP met coal quality was composed of 39.7% Mid Vol., 40.9% High Vol. A, 16.9% High Vol. B, 24% Low Vol., and 0.1% High Vol. C. In the year ended December 31, 2017, our CAPP Met coal quality was composed of 429% Mid Vol., 44.0% High Vol. A and 131% High Vol. B. During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we shipped 4.0 million tons and 29 million tons, respectively, of our met coal production from our CAPP Met operations internationally to customers in Europe, Asia and the Americas, with the remaining met coal production sold into the domestic market. See Item 2 Properties, Costs & Calculations, for the 2 year historical sales price ranges. Deep Mine 41, associated with the McClure Prep Plant, is located in Dickenson County, Virginia on property subject to a lease dated April 1, 2003 Contura can automatically extend the lease until March 31, 2063 The McClure Plant is a 1000 ton per hour plant that is located on owned property in Dickenson County, Virginia. It was built in 1979 and upgraded in 1998. Road Fork #52 Mine is located in Wyoming County, West Virginia on property subject to a lease dated August 25, 1997. After expiration of the initial 10 year term, the lease automatically extended for successive 5 year periods. The current 5 year period expires August 24, 2022 and shall be renewed for another 5 year period unless a 90 day termination notice is provided by the lessee. The Kepler Plant is a 850 ton per hour plant located in Wyoming County, West Virginia on surface property subject to a lease dated August 25, 1997. After expiration of the initial 10 year term, the lease automatically extended for successive 5 year periods, not to exceed four such renewals. The current 5 year period (the third) expires August 24, 2022 and shall be renewed for another 5 year period (the fourth). CAPP Thermal Our CAPP Thermal operations consist of surface and underground thermal coal mines. The coal produced by CAPP Thermal operations is predominantly thermal coal with some met coal byproduct. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, our CAPP Thermal coal quality was composed of low sulfur, high BTU coal. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we shipped 0.6 million tons of our thermal coal production from our CAPP Thermal operations domestically to utility and industrial customers. NAPP Our NAPP operations consist of the large scale, high margin and high quality Cumberland mine. Cumberland is located in Greene County, Pennsylvania and operates 1 highly efficient longwall supported by four continuous miner sections for longwall panel development. Our NAPP operations also include the idled Emerald mine complex, which is currently being used as an underground water treatment and holding facility, allowing Cumberland to realize significant cost savings on water management expenditures. We are also able to sell part of our Cumberland coal production (0.7 and 0.2 million tons for the years ended 2018 and 2017, respectively) into the met coal market as High Vol. B, achieving higher realized pricing than if 9 Table of Contents sold as thermal coal. The coal produced by the Cumberland mine is from the Pittsburgh 8 seam, which is recognized for its high BTU, low chlorine content and desirable ash fusion properties. This makes Cumberland coal ideal for boilers and, accordingly, most of the domestic customer base for this mine consists of base load, scrubbed coal fired power plants. Additionally, NAPP offers transportation optionality through rail and barge, allowing us to reach a broader customer base. We enter into long term supply agreements, typically ranging from 1 to 3 years, to contract our thermal coal production in advance, thereby reducing the risks associated with our thermal coal portfolio in future years. The Cumberland Mine is on property owned by our subsidiaries, as well as on property subject to a lease dated December 4, 1980 (the Greene Manor Lease ). We can extend the Greene Manor Lease for successive ten year periods. The Cumberland Plant (associated with Cumberland Mine) is a 1600 ton per hour plant located on owned property in Greene County, Pennsylvania. It was built in 1978 and upgraded in 1996. Trading and Logistics Our Trading and Logistics business purchases met coal from domestic producers and sells into international markets. Such purchases are predominantly made pursuant to long term agreements, but we also purchase coal on the spot market when it is advantageous to our business. A strategic cornerst1 of our Trading and Logistics business is our interest in the DTA coal export terminal. In March 2017, we increased our stake in the DTA coal export terminal from 40.6% to 65.0%, which provides us with 14 million tons of export capacity. Purchasing coal produced by various CAPP operators allows us to leverage our export capacity at DTA. Our Trading and Logistics platform complements our met coal operations by blending captive and third party coal at DTA to achieve a broader portfolio of coal qualities. We typically build in margin for transportation fees, overhead, risk and profit when purchasing third party coal. Additionally, we sell capacity to third party operators via throughput contracts. The Trading and Logistics business provides us with a larger presence in international markets and further diversifies and expands our revenue sources. PRB Our PRB operations formerly consisted of the Belle Ayr and Eagle Butte mines, located in Wyoming. On December 8, 2017, we sold these, along with related coal reserves, equipment, infrastructure and other real properties. See Note 4 for further information on discontinued operations. Financial Information About Reportable Segments and Geographic Areas See Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 27 Concentration of Credit Risk and Major Customers, and Note 28 Segment Information for financial information about reportable segments and geographic areas. Mine Life The following table provides a summary of mine life for our active mines by segment, as of December 31 2018 Segment Location Estimated Years CAPP Met (1) Virginia, West Virginia 1 to 23 CAPP Thermal West Virginia 9 to 37 NAPP (2) Pennsylvania 18 (1) Includes Deep Mine 41 with an estimated mine life of 23 years. (2) Includes Cumberland with an estimated mine life of 18 years. Cumberland mine includes all of the Cumberland Reserve block and a portion of the Greene Manor Reserve block. The remaining portion of the Greene Manor Reserve block and the CNG and Consol Trade Area reserve blocks are located adjacent to the area included in the Cumberland mine life area . Coal Mining Techniques We use five different mining techniques to extract coal from the ground longwall mining, room and pillar mining, truck and shovel mining, truck and front end loader mining, contour mining and highwall mining. We do not use mountaintop removal mining and currently have no plans to do so in the future. 10 Table of Contents Longwall Mining At our Cumberland mine, we utilize longwall mining techniques, which are the most productive underground mining methods used in the United States. A rotating drum is trammed mechanically across the face of coal. A hydraulic system supports the roof of the mine while the drum advances through the coal. Chain conveyors then move the loosened coal to a standard underground mine conveyor system for transport to the surface. Continuous miners are used to develop access to long rectangular blocks of coal which are then mined with longwall equipment, allowing controlled subsidence behind the advancing machinery. Longwall mining is highly productive and most effective for large blocks of medium to thick coal seams. High capital costs associated with longwall mining demand large, contiguous reserves. Ultimate seam recovery of in place reserves using longwall mining is much higher than the room and pillar mining underground technique. All of the coal mined at our longwall mines is processed in preparation plants to remove rock and impurities before it becomes saleable clean coal. Room and Pillar Mining Certain of our mines in CAPP use room and pillar mining methods. In this type of mining, main airways and transportation entries are developed and maintained while remote controlled continuous miners extract coal from the seam, leaving pillars to support the roof. Shuttle cars or battery coal haulers are used to transport coal from the continuous miner to the conveyor belt for transport to the surface. This method is more flexible than longwall mining and often used to mine smaller coal blocks or thinner seams of coal. Ultimate seam recovery of in place reserves is less than that achieved with longwall mining. All of this production is also processed in preparation plants to remove rock and impurities before it becomes saleable clean coal. Truck and Shovel Mining and Truck and Front End Loader Mining We utilize truck shovel and truck front end loader mining methods at some of our CAPP surface mines. These methods are similar and involve using large, electric or hydraulic powered shovels or diesel powered front end loaders to remove earth and rock (overburden) covering a coal seam which is later used to refill the excavated coal pits after the coal is removed. The loading equipment places the coal into trucks for transportation to a preparation plant or loadout area. Ultimate seam recovery of in place reserves on average exceeds 90%. Depending on geology and market destination, surface mined coal may need to be processed in a preparation plant before sale. In the case of some metallurgical grade coals, as much as 80% of surface mined coal may need to be processed in a preparation plant to enhance the sales value of the coal. Productivity depends on overburden and coal thickness (strip ratio), equipment utilized and geologic factors. Contour Mining We use contour mining in our CAPP mines which limits the overburden removal from above a coal seam or series of coal seams. In contour mining, surface mining machinery follows the contours of a coal seam or seams around a ridge, excavating the overburden and recovering the coal seam or seams as a contour bench around the ridge is created. This contour bench is then backfilled and graded in accordance with an approved reclamation plan. Highwall mining methods are used in connection with some Contour Mining operations. Depending on geology and market destination coal mined by contour mining may need to be processed in preparation plants to remove rock and impurities before it becomes a saleable clean coal. Highwall Mining We utilize highwall mining methods at our CAPP surface mines. A highwall mining system consists of a remotely controlled continuous miner, which extracts coal and conveys it via augers or belt conveyors to the surface. The cut is typically a rectangular, horizontal opening in the highwall (the unexcavated face of exposed overburden and coal in a surface mine) 9 feet or 11 feet wide and reaching depths of up to 1,000 feet. Multiple parallel openings are driven into the highwall, separated by narrow pillars that extend the full depth of the hole. All of the coal mined at our highwall mining operations is processed in preparation plants to remove rock and impurities before it becomes saleable clean coal. Marketing, Sales and Customer Contracts We market coal produced at our operations and purchase and resell coal mined by others. We have coal supply commitments with a wide range of electric utilities, steel and coke manufacturers and industrial customers. Our marketing efforts are centered on customer needs and requirements. By offering coal of various types and grades to provide specific qualities of heat content, sulfur and ash and other characteristics relevant to its customers, we are able to serve a global customer base. Through this global platform, our coals are shipped to customers on five continents. This diversity allows us to 11 Table of Contents adjust to changing market conditions. Many of our larger customers are well established public utilities and steel manufacturers. Our captive coal volumes include coal produced and processed by us as well as small volumes purchased from third party producers to blend with our produced coal in order to meet customer specifications. These volumes are processed by us, meaning that we washed, crushed or blended the coal at 1 of our preparation plants or loading facilities prior to resale. Our T&L coal volumes solely include those volumes purchased from third party producers and sold through our Trading and Logistics business. Our export shipments serviced customers through shipping ports in 23 and 22 countries during the years ended 2018 and 2017, respectively. Europe was our largest export market during these periods, with coal sales to Europe accounting for approximately 40% and 44%, respectively, of total export coal revenues (excluding freight and handling revenues) and 32% of total coal revenues (excluding freight and handling revenues) for both years. All of our sales are made in U.S. dollars. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 28 Segment Information for additional export coal revenue information. Our metallurgical coal sales are typically made with customers with whom we have a long term relationship. However, defined pricing and volume in our sales agreements tend to be short term in nature. Domestic metallurgical customers typically enter into 1 year agreements with a fixed price for the entire contract year. Any longer term agreement would generally have a renegotiation of price every subsequent contract year. Export sales are generally made on an annual, quarterly, or spot cargo basis. Annual and quarterly agreements typically have market indexed pricing that changes with the market monthly. Any export agreement with a term greater than 1 year would generally have a renegotiation of pricing terms for each subsequent contract year. Future volume for future years is generally contingent on both parties agreeing to a pricing mechanism to cover the contract year. We enter into long term contracts (typically ranging from 1 to 3 years) with our thermal coal customers. Terms of these agreements may address coal quality requirements, quantity parameters, flexibility and adjustment mechanisms, permitted sources of supply, treatment of environmental constraints, options to extend, force majeure, suspension, termination and assignment issues, the allocation between the parties of the cost of complying with future governmental regulations and many other matters. Generally, our long term thermal coal agreements contain committed volumes and fixed prices for a period or a certain number of periods pursuant to which thermal coal will be delivered under these agreements. After a fixed price period elapses, the long term agreement may provide for a price negotiation determination period prior to the commencement of the pending unpriced contract period. The price negotiations generally consider either then current market prices and or relevant market indices. Provisions of this sort increase the difficulty of predicting the exact prices a coal supplier will receive for its coal during the course of the long term agreement. During the years ended 2018 and 2017, approximately 75% and 86%, respectively, of our thermal coal sales volume were delivered pursuant to long term contracts. Distribution and Transportation Coal consumed domestically is usually sold at the mine and transportation costs are normally borne by the purchaser. Export coal is usually sold at the loading port, with purchasers responsible for further transportation. For our export sales, we negotiate transportation agreements with various providers, including railroads, trucks, barge lines, and terminal facilities to transport shipments to the relevant loading port. We coordinate with customers, mining facilities and transportation providers to establish shipping schedules that meet each customer needs. Our captive coal is loaded from our preparation plants, loadout facilities, and in certain cases directly from our mines. The coal we purchase is loaded in some cases directly from mines and preparation plants operated by third parties or from an export terminal. Virtually all of our coal is transported from the mine to our preparation plants by truck or belt conveyor systems. It is transported from preparation plants and loading facilities to the customer by means of railroads, trucks, barge lines, and lake going and ocean going vessels from terminal facilities. We depend upon rail, barge, trucking and other systems to deliver coal to markets. In the years ended 2018 and 2017, our produced coal was transported from the mines and to the customer primarily by rail, with the main rail carriers being CSX Transportation and Norfolk Southern Railway Company. Rail shipments constituted approximately 55% and 41% of total shipments of captive coal volume from our mines to a vessel loading point or customer location during the years ended 2018 and 2017, respectively. The balance was shipped from our preparation plants, loadout facilities or mines via truck or barge. Our export sales are primarily shipped to DTA and Pier 6 (Lamberts Point) shipping ports in the Hampton Roads area of Virginia. Contura will ship limited export quantiles through other US ports when warranted by logistics and economics. We own a 65.0% interest in the DTA coal export terminal at Newport News, Virginia. 12 Table of Contents Equipment Our equipment, including underground and surface, is of varying age and in good and operational condition. It is regularly maintained and serviced by a dedicated maintenance workforce and third party suppliers, including scheduled preventive maintenance. Procurement Principal goods and services used in our business include mining equipment, replacement parts and materials such as explosives, diesel fuel, tires, conveyance structure, ventilation supplies, lubricants, steel, magnetite and other raw materials, maintenance and repair services, electricity, and roof control and support Item. We rely on third party suppliers to provide mining materials and equipment. Although there continues to be consolidation, which has resulted in a limited number of suppliers for certain types of equipment and supplies, we believe adequate substitute suppliers are available. For further discussion of our sources and availability of materials, see Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Operations Decreased availability or increased costs of key equipment and materials, including certain Item mandated by regulations, could impact our cost of production and decrease our profitability . We incur substantial expenses per year to procure goods and services in support of our respective business activities in addition to capital expenditures. We use suppliers for a significant portion of our equipment rebuilds and repairs both on and off site, as well as construction and reclamation activities. We have a centralized sourcing group, which sets sourcing policy and strategy focusing primarily on major supplier contract negotiation and administration, including but not limited to the purchase of major capital goods in support of the mining operations. We promote competition between suppliers and seek to develop relationships with suppliers that focus on lowering our costs while improving quality and service. We seek suppliers who identify and concentrate on implementing continuous improvement opportunities within their area of expertise. Competition The coal industry is highly competitive, both in the U.S. and internationally. In the metallurgical coal market, of the approximately 70 million tons currently produced annually in the U.S., Contura produces approximately 12 million tons, or 17%. A significant portion of U.S. metallurgical coal production is shipped internationally, where it competes directly with international sources of production. Approximately 60% of Contura metallurgical coal production is shipped internationally. In the thermal market, of the approximately 710 million tons currently produced annually in the U.S., Contura produces approximately 125 million tons, or 2%. Only a small portion of overall U.S. thermal production is shipped internationally, but there is strong competition in the domestic market. Approximately 4% of Contura thermal coal production is shipped internationally. We compete for U.S. sales with numerous coal producers in the Appalachian region and the Illinois basin, and in some cases with western coal producers. The key factors of this competition are delivered coal price, coal quality and characteristics, transportation costs from the mine to the customer and the reliability of supply. Competition from coal with lower production costs shipped from other coal basins has resulted in increased competition for coal sales in the Appalachian region. Demand for met coal and the prices that we are able to obtain for it depend to a large extent on the demand and price for steel in the U.S. and internationally. This demand is influenced by factors beyond our control, including overall economic activity and the availability and relative cost of substitute materials. In the export met coal market, we compete with producers from Australia and Canada and with other international producers on many of the same factors as in the U.S. market. Competition in the export market is also impacted by fluctuations in relative foreign exchange rates and costs of inland and ocean transportation, among other factors. Demand for thermal coal and the prices that we are able to obtain for it are closely linked to coal consumption patterns of the domestic electric generation industry. These coal consumption patterns are influenced by many factors beyond our control, including the demand for electricity, which is significantly dependent upon summer and winter temperatures, and commercial and industrial outputs in the U.S., environmental and other government regulations, technological developments and the location, availability, quality and price of competing sources of power. These competing sources include natural gas, nuclear, fuel oil and increasingly, renewable sources such as solar and wind power. Demand for thermal coal and the prices that we are able to obtain for it are affected by each of the above factors. 13 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately 4,420 employees, with the United Mine Workers of America ( UMWA ) representing approximately 16% of these employees. Certain of our subsidiaries have wage agreements with the UMWA that are subject to termination by either the employer or the UMWA, without cause, on July 31, 2020. Relations with organized labor are important to our success, and we believe we have good relations with our employees. Legal Proceedings We could become party to legal proceedings from time to time. These proceedings, as well as governmental examinations, could involve various business units and a variety of claims including, but not limited to, contract disputes, personal injury claims, property damage claims (including those resulting from blasting, subsidence, trucking and flooding), environmental and safety issues, and employment matters. While some legal matters may specify the damages claimed by the plaintiffs, many seek an unquantified amount of damages. Even when the amount of damages claimed against us or our subsidiaries is stated, (i) the claimed amount may be exaggerated or unsupported; (ii) the claim may be based on a novel legal theory or involve a large number of parties; (iii) there may be uncertainty as to the likelihood of a class being certified or the ultimate size of the class; (iv) there may be uncertainty as to the outcome of pending appeals or motions; and or (v) there may be significant factual issues to be resolved. As a result, if such legal matters arise in the future we may be unable to estimate a range of possible loss for matters that have not yet progressed sufficiently through discovery and development of important factual information and legal issues. We record accruals based on an estimate of the ultimate outcome of these matters, but these estimates can be difficult to determine and involve significant judgment. ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER REGULATORY MATTERS Federal, state and local authorities regulate the U.S. coal mining industry and the industries it serves with respect to matters such as employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, air quality standards, water quality, plant and wildlife protection, the reclamation of mining properties after mining has been completed, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining, and the effects of mining on groundwater quality and availability. These laws and regulations, which are extensive, subject to change, and have tended to become stricter over time, have had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our production costs and our competitive position relative to certain other sources of electricity generation. Future legislation, regulations or orders, as well as future interpretations and more rigorous enforcement of existing laws, regulations or orders, may require substantial increases in equipment and operating costs to us and delays, interruptions, or a termination of operations, the extent of which we cannot predict. We intend to continue to comply with these regulatory requirements as they evolve by timely implementing necessary modifications to facilities or operating procedures. Future legislation, regulations, orders or regional or international arrangements, agreements or treaties, as well efforts by private organizations, including those relating to global climate change, may continue to cause coal to become more heavily regulated. We endeavor to conduct our mining operations in compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations. We have certain procedures in place that are designed to enable us to comply with these laws and regulations. However, due to the complexity and interpretation of these laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance, and violations are likely to occur from time to time. N1 of the violations or the m1tary penalties assessed upon us have been material. Future liability under or compliance with environmental and safety requirements could, however, have a material adverse effect on our operations or competitive position. Under some circumstances, substantial fines and penalties, including revocation, denial or suspension of mining permits, may be imposed under the laws described below. M1tary sanctions, expensive compliance measures and, in severe circumstances, criminal sanctions may be imposed for failure to comply with these laws. As of December 31, 2018 , we had accrued $228.4 million for reclamation liabilities and mine closures, including $24.8 million of current liabilities. Mining Permits and Approvals Numerous governmental permits or approvals are required for mining operations pursuant to certain federal, state and local laws applicable to our operations. When we apply for these permits and approvals, we may be required to prepare and present data to federal, state or local authorities pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed production or processing of coal may have upon the environment and measures we will take to minimize and mitigate those impacts. The requirements imposed 14 Table of Contents by any of these authorities may be costly and time consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of mining operations. In order to obtain mining permits and approvals from federal and state regulatory authorities, mine operators, including us, must submit a reclamation plan for restoring, upon the completion of mining operations, the mined property to its prior or better condition, productive use or other permitted condition. Typically, we submit the necessary permit applications several months, or even years, before we plan to begin mining a new area. Mining permits generally are approved many months or even years after a completed application is submitted. Therefore, we cannot be assured that we will obtain future mining permits in a timely manner. Permitting requirements also require, under certain circumstances, that we obtain surface owner consent if the surface estate has been severed from the mineral estate. This requires us to negotiate with third parties for surface rights that overly coal we control or intend to control. These negotiations can be costly and time consuming, lasting years in some instances, which can create additional delays in the permitting process. If we cannot successfully negotiate for surface rights, we could be denied a permit to mine coal we already control. We are in the process of transferring certain permits for the PRB operations sold to Blackjewel. During the permit transfer process, Blackjewel will conduct mining operations under such permits in accordance with a permit operating agreement between the parties. The Powder River Basin Resource Council filed objections to the permit transfer with the Wyoming Environmental Quality Council on November 16, 2018. The objections are scheduled to be heard on May 15 and 16, 2019. We currently believe the objections are without merit, but there can be no assurance that such transfers will be completed on a timely basis, or at all. There are also a small number of permits that were sold by Alpha and the transfers have not yet been approved. Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act SMCRA, which is administered by the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement ( OSM ), establishes mining, environmental protection, reclamation, and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as many aspects of underground mining that effect surface expressions. Mine operators must obtain SMCRA permits and permit renewals from the OSM or from the applicable state agency if the state agency has obtained primary control of administration and enforcement of the SMCRA program, or primacy. A state agency may obtain primacy if OSM concludes that the state regulatory agency mining regulatory program is no less stringent than the federal mining program under SMRCA. States where we have active mining operations have achieved primacy and issue permits in lieu of OSM. OSM maintains oversight of how the states administer their programs. SMCRA permit provisions include a complex set of requirements which include coal prospecting; mine plan development; topsoil or growth medium removal, storage and replacement; selective handling of overburden materials; mine pit backfilling and grading; protection of the hydrologic balance, including outside the permit area; subsidence control for underground mines; surface drainage control; mine drainage and mine discharge control and treatment; and re vegetation and reclamation. The mining permit application process is initiated by collecting baseline data to adequately characterize the pre mine environmental condition of the permit area. This work includes, but is not limited to, surveys of cultural and historical resources, soils, vegetation, wildlife, assessment of surface and ground water hydrology, climatology, and wetlands. In conducting this work, we collect geologic data to define and model the soil and rock structures associated with the coal that we will mine. We develop mining and reclamation plans by utilizing this geologic data and incorporating elements of the environmental data. The mining and reclamation plan incorporates the provisions of SMCRA, the state programs, and the complementary environmental programs that affect coal mining. Also included in the permit application are documents defining ownership and agreements pertaining to coal, minerals, oil and gas, water rights, rights of way and surface land, and documents required of the OSM Applicant Violator System ( ACS ), including the mining and compliance history of officers, directors and principal owners of the entity. Regulations under SMCRA and its state analogues provide that a mining permit or modification can, under certain circumstances, be delayed, refused or revoked if we or any entity that owns or controls us or is under common ownership or control with us have unabated permit violations or have been the subject of permit or reclamation bond revocation or suspension. These regulations define certain relationships, such as owning over 50% of stock in an entity or having the authority to determine the manner in which the entity conducts mining operations, as constituting ownership and control. Certain other relationships are presumed to constitute ownership or control, including being an officer or director of an entity or owning between 10% and 50% of the mining operator. This presumption, in some cases, can be rebutted where the person or entity can demonstrate that it in fact does not or did not have authority directly or indirectly to determine the manner in which 15 Table of Contents the relevant coal mining operation is conducted. Thus, past or ongoing violations of federal and state mining laws by us or by coal mining operations owned or controlled by our significant stockholders, directors or officers or certain other third party affiliates could provide a basis to revoke existing permits and to deny the issuance of additional permits or modification or amendment of existing permits. This is known as being permit blocked. In recent years, the permitting required for coal mining has been the subject of increasingly stringent regulatory and administrative requirements and extensive litigation by environmental groups. Once a permit application is prepared and submitted to the regulatory agency, it goes through a completeness review and technical review. Public notice of the proposed permit is given that also provides for a comment period before a permit can be issued. Some SMCRA mine permits take over a year to prepare, depending on the size and complexity of the mine and may take many months or even years to be issued. Regulatory authorities have considerable discretion in the timing of the permit issuance and the public and other agencies have rights to comment on and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. The Aband1d Mine Land Fund, which is part of SMCRA, requires a fee on all coal produced. The proceeds are used to reclaim mine lands closed or aband1d prior to SMCRA adoption in 1977. The current fee is $0.28 per ton on surface mined coal and $0.12 per ton on deep mined coal. For the fiscal years ended 2018 and 2017, we recorded $16 million and $14 million, respectively, of expense related to these fees. While SMCRA is a comprehensive statute, SMCRA does not supersede the need for compliance with other major environmental statutes, including the Endangered Species Act; Clean Air Act; Clean Water Act; Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ) and Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ( CERCLA or Superfund ). Surety Bonds Federal and state laws require us to obtain surety bonds or other approved forms of security to cover the costs of certain long term obligations including mine closure or reclamation costs under SMCRA, federal and state workers compensation costs, coal leases and other miscellaneous obligations. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, our posted third party surety bond amount in all states where we operate, less portions attributable to discontinued operations, was approximately $344.3 million and $166.0 million, respectively, which was used to primarily secure the performance of our reclamation or lease obligations. Posting of a bond or other security with respect to the performance of reclamation obligations is a condition to the issuance of a permit under SMCRA. Under the terms of agreements, we and Alpha entered into in connection with the Alpha Restructuring, we and Alpha were required to replace Alpha self bonds with surety bonds, collateralized bonds, or other financial assurance mechanisms, over time and under applicable regulations. Self bonding may not be available to us as a means to comply with our reclamation bonding obligations for the foreseeable future. In August 2016, OSM announced its decision to pursue a rulemaking to evaluate self bonding for coal mines, including eligibility standards. OSM has not yet issued a proposed rule to address this issue. Clean Air Act The Clean Air Act and comparable state laws that regulate air emissions affect coal mining operations both directly and indirectly. Direct impacts on coal mining and processing operations include Clean Air Act permitting requirements and emission control requirements relating to particulate matter, which may include controlling fugitive dust. The Clean Air Act indirectly affects coal mining operations by extensively regulating air emissions of particulate matter, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds emitted by coal fired electricity generating plants or the use of met coal in connection with steelmaking operations. In recent years, Congress has considered legislation that would require increased reductions in emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, and mercury. The general effect of emission regulations on coal fired power plants could be to reduce demand for coal. In addition to the greenhouse gas ( GHG ) issues discussed below, the air emissions programs that may materially and adversely affect our operations, financial results, liquidity, and demand for coal, directly or indirectly, include, but are not limited to, the following Acid Rain. Title IV of the Clean Air Act requires reductions of sulfur dioxide emissions by electric utilities. Affected electricity generators have sought to meet these requirements by, among other compliance methods, switching to lower sulfur fuels, installing pollution control devices, reducing electricity generating levels or purchasing or trading sulfur dioxide emission allowances. We cannot accurately predict the effect of these provisions of the Clean Air Act on us in future years. 16 Table of Contents NAAQS for Criteria Pollutants. The Clean Air Act requires the EPA to set standards, referred to as National Ambient Air Quality Standards ( NAAQS ), for six common air pollutants, including nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, and oz1 Areas that are not in compliance (referred to as non attainment areas ) with these standards must take steps to reduce emissions levels. Over the past several years, the EPA has revised its NAAQS for nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, particulate matter and oz1, in each case making the standards more stringent. As a result, some states will be required to amend their existing individual state implementation plans ( SIPs ) to achieve compliance with the new air quality standards. Other states will be required to develop new plans for areas that were previously in attainment, but do not meet the revised standards. For example, in October 2015, the EPA finalized the NAAQS for oz1 pollution and reduced the limit to 70 parts per billion (ppb) from the previous 75 ppb standard. The EPA made the majority of area designations related to this rule on November 16, 2017 and June 4, 2018 and finalized designations for the remaining regions of the country on July 25, 2018. Under the revised NAAQS for oz1 in particular, significant additional emissions control expenditures may be required at coal fired power plants. The final rules and new standards may impose additional emissions control requirements on our customers in the electric generation, steelmaking, and coke industries. Although coal mining and processing operations may emit certain criteria pollutants, we operate in material compliance with our permits. However, our operations could be impacted if the attainment status of the areas in which we operate changes in the future. A suit by industry challenging the EPA 2015 Oz1 NAAQS ( Murray Energy Corp. v. EPA) is currently pending in the D.C. Circuit. In April 2017, the D.C. Circuit Court granted EPA motion to indefinitely delay any decision on the challenges pending the EPA possible reconsideration of the rule. In July 2018, the D.C. Circuit Court returned the matter to its active docket and in August 2018, the EPA indicated to the court that it would not be revising the 2015 standards at this time. NOx SIP Call. The NOx SIP Call program was established by the EPA in October of 1998 to reduce the transport of nitrogen oxide and oz1 on prevailing winds from the Midwest and South to states in the Northeast, which said they could not meet federal air quality standards because of migrating pollution. The program is designed to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions by 1 million tons per year in 22 eastern states and the District of Columbia. As a result of the program, many power plants have been or will be required to install additional emission control measures, such as selective catalytic reduction devices. Installation of additional emission control measures will make it more costly to operate coal fired power plants, potentially making coal a less attractive fuel. On February 26, 2019, EPA published a final rule amending the NOx SIP Call regulations to allow states to establish alternative monitoring and reporting requirements for certain sources. Cross State Air Pollution Rule. In June 2011, the EPA finalized the CSAPR, which required 28 states in the Midwest and eastern seaboard of the U.S. to reduce power plant emissions that cross state lines and contribute to oz1 and or fine particle pollution in other states. Nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide emission reductions were scheduled to commence in 2012, with further reductions effective in 2014. However, implementation of CSAPR requirements were delayed due to litigation. In October 2014, the EPA issued an interim final rule reconciling the CSAPR rule with the Court order, which called for Phase 1 implementation in 2015 and Phase 2 implementation in 2017. In September 2016, the EPA finalized an update to the CSAPR oz1 season program by issuing the Final CSAPR Update. The Final CSAPR Update rule is the subject of a pending legal challenge in the D.C. Circuit by five states. For states to meet their requirements under CSAPR, a number of coal fired electric generating units will likely need to be retired, rather than retrofitted with the necessary emission control technologies, reducing demand for thermal coal. Mercury and Hazardous Air Pollutants. In February 2012, the EPA formally adopted a rule to regulate emissions of mercury and other metals, fine particulates, and acid gases such as hydrogen chloride from coal and oil fired power plants, referred to as MATS. In March 2013, the EPA finalized reconsideration of the MATS rule as it pertains to new power plants, principally adjusting emissions limits for new coal fired units to levels considered attainable by existing control technologies. In subsequent litigation, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down the MATS rule based on the EPA failure to take costs into consideration. The D.C. Circuit allowed the current rule to stay in place until the EPA issued a new finding. In April 2016, the EPA issued a final finding that it is appropriate and necessary to set standards for emissions of air toxics from coal and oil fired power plants. However, in April 2017, the EPA indicated in a court filing that it may reconsider this finding, and on April 27, 2017, the D.C. Circuit stayed the litigation. In August 2018, the EPA stated that it plans on sending a draft proposal to the White House questioning the EPA earlier finding and intends to reevaluate the MATS rule itself. 17 Table of Contents On December 27, 2018, EPA issued a proposed revised Supplemental Cost Finding for MATS, as well as the Clean Air Act required risk and technology review. After taking account of both the cost to coal and oil fired power plants of complying with the MATS rule and the benefits attributable to regulating hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions from these power plants, EPA proposed to determine that it is not appropriate and necessary to regulate HAP emissions from power plants under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act. The emission standards and other requirements of the MATS rule, first promulgated in 2012, would remain in place, however, since EPA did not propose to remove coal and oil fired power plants from the list of sources that are regulated under Section 112 of the Act. Comments on the proposed rule are due on or before April 17, 2019. Apart from MATS, several states have enacted or proposed regulations requiring reductions in mercury emissions from coal fired power plants, and federal legislation to reduce mercury emissions from power plants has been proposed. Regulation of mercury emissions by the EPA, states, Congress, or pursuant to an international treaty may further decrease the demand for coal. Like CSAPR, MATS and other similar future regulations could accelerate the retirement of a significant number of coal fired power plants, in addition to the significant number of plants and units that have already been retired as a result of environmental and regulatory requirements and uncertainties adversely impacting coal fired generation. Such retirements would likely adversely impact our business. Regional Haze, New Source Review and Methane. The EPA regional haze program is intended to protect and improve visibility at and around national parks, national wilderness areas and international parks. In December 2011, the EPA issued a final rule under which the emission caps imposed under CSAPR for a given state would supplant the obligations of that state with regard to visibility protection. In May 2012, the EPA finalized a rule that allows the trading programs in CSAPR to serve as an alternative to determining source by source Best Available Retrofit Technology ( BART ). This rule provides that states in the CSAPR region can substitute participation in CSAPR for source specific BART for sulfur dioxide and or nitrogen oxides emissions from power plants. This program may result in additional emissions restrictions from new coal fueled power plants whose operations may impair visibility at and around federally protected areas. This program may also require certain existing coal fueled power plants to install additional control measures designed to limit haze causing emissions, such as sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic chemicals and particulate matter. These limitations could result in additional coal plant closures and affect the future market for coal. A final Regional Haze rule was published on January 10, 2017 and is currently being reevaluated by the EPA. In addition, the EPA new source review program under certain circumstances requires existing coal fired power plants, when modifications to those plants significantly change emissions, to install the more stringent air emissions control equipment required of new plants. Under the proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule ( ACE Rule ), however, the way in which emissions increases are calculated would change so that modifications to power plants would, as a general matter, be less likely to trigger new source review. Federal legislation to reform new source review has been reintroduced and regulatory reform is being considered by the EPA. Litigation seeking to force the EPA to list coal mines as a category of air pollution sources that endanger public health or welfare under Section 111 of the CAA and establish standards to reduce emissions from sources of methane and other emissions related to coal mines was dismissed by the D.C. Circuit in May 2014. In that case, the Court denied a rulemaking petition citing agency discretion and budgetary restrictions, and ruled the EPA has reasonable discretion to carry out its delegated responsibilities, which includes determining the timing and relative priority of its regulatory agenda. In July 2014, the D.C. Circuit denied a petition seeking a rehearing of the case en banc. Litigation regarding these issues may continue and could result in the need for additional air pollution controls for coal fired units and our operations. Global Climate Change Global climate change initiatives and public perceptions have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in decreased coal fired power plant capacity and utilization, phasing out and closing many existing coal fired power plants, reducing or eliminating construction of new coal fired power plants in the United States and certain other countries, increased costs to mine coal and decreased demand and prices for thermal coal. There are 3 important sources of GHGs associated with the coal industry first, the end use of our coal by our customers in electricity generation, coke plants, and steelmaking is a source of GHGs; second, combustion of fuel for mining equipment used in coal production; and third, coal mining can release methane, a GHG, directly into the atmosphere. GHG emissions from coal consumption and production are subject to pending and proposed regulation as part of initiatives to address global climate change. 18 Table of Contents The Kyoto Protocol to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (the Kyoto Protocol ) became effective in 2005 and bound those developed countries that ratified it (which the U.S. did not do) to reduce their global GHG emissions. In December 2015, the United States and almost 200 nations agreed to the Paris Agreement, which entered into force on November 4, 2016 and has the long term goal to limit global warming to below 2 degrees Celsius by 2100 from temperatures in the pre industrial era. Although this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions, it does include pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. On June 1, 2017, the Trump administration announced that the U.S. will withdraw from the Paris Agreement. Nevertheless, numerous U.S. governors, mayors and businesses have pledged their commitments to the goals of the Paris Agreement. These commitments could further reduce demand and prices for our coal. In 2009, the EPA issued a finding that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment. The EPA has since adopted regulations under existing provisions of the CAA pursuant to this finding. For example, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the U.S., including coal fired electric power plants and steel making operations. The EPA has also promulgated the Tailoring Rule, which requires that all new or modified stationary sources of GHGs that will emit more than 75,000 tons of carbon dioxide per year and are otherwise subject to CAA regulation, and any other facilities that will emit more than 100,000 tons of carbon dioxide per year, to undergo prevention of significant deterioration ( PSD ) permitting, which requires that the permitted entity adopt the best available control technology. In June 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court addressed whether the EPA regulation of GHG emissions from new motor vehicles properly triggered GHG permitting requirements for stationary sources under the CAA as well as the validity of the Tailoring Rule under the CAA. The decision reversed, in part, and affirmed, in part, a 2012 D.C. Circuit decision that upheld the Tailoring Rule. Specifically, the Court held that the EPA exceeded its statutory authority when it interpreted the CAA to require PSD and Title V permitting for stationary sources based on their potential GHG emissions. However, the Court also held that the EPA determination that a source already subject to the PSD program due to its emission of conventional pollutants may be required to limit its GHG emissions by employing the best available control technology was permissible. As a result, the EPA is now requiring new sources already subject to the PSD program, including coal fired power plants, to undergo control technology reviews for GHGs (predominately carbon dioxide) as a condition of permit issuance. These reviews may impose limits on GHG emissions, or otherwise be used to compel consideration of alternative fuels and generation systems, as well as increase litigation risk for and so discourage development of coal fired power plants. On August 3, 2015, the EPA released a final rule establishing New Source Performance Standards ( NSPS ) for emissions of carbon dioxide for new, modified and reconstructed fossil fuel fired electric generating units ( Power Plant NSPS ). The final rule requires that newly constructed fossil fuel fired steam generating units achieve an emission standard for carbon dioxide of 1,400 lb CO 2 MWh gross. The standard is based on the performance of a supercritical pulverized coal boiler implementing partial carbon capture and storage ( CCS ). Modified and reconstructed fossil fuel fired steam generating units must implement the most efficient generation achievable through a combination of best operating practices and equipment upgrades, to meet an emission standard consistent with best historical performance. Reconstructed units must implement the most efficient generating technology based on the size of the unit (supercritical steam conditions for larger units, to meet a standard of 1,800 lb CO 2 MWh gross, and subcritical conditions for smaller units to meet a standard of 2,000 lb CO 2 MWh gross). Numerous legal challenges to the final rule are currently pending. There is a risk that CCS technology may not be commercially practical in limiting emissions as otherwise required by the rule or similar rules that may be proposed in the future. If such legislative or regulatory programs are adopted or maintained, and economic, commercially available carbon capture technology for power plants is not developed or adopted in a timely manner, it would negatively affect our customers and would further reduce the demand for coal as a fuel source, causing coal prices and sales of our coal to decline, perhaps materially. In August 2015, the EPA issued the Clean Power Plan ( CPP ), a final rule that establishes carbon pollution standards for existing power plants, called CO 2 emission performance rates. The EPA expected each state to develop implementation plans for power plants in its state to meet the individual state targets established in the CPP. In response to legal challenges, on February 9, 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court granted a stay of the implementation of the CPP before the D.C. Circuit even issued a decision. By its terms, this stay will remain in effect throughout the pendency of the appeals process including at the D.C. Circuit Court and the Supreme Court through the denial of any certiorari petition or a decision, if the petition is granted. The Supreme Court stay applies only to the CPP and does not affect the Power Plant NSPS. President Trump March 2017 Executive Order directed the EPA to review the Power Plant NSPS and the CPP and, if appropriate, take steps to suspend, revise or rescind the rules through the rulemaking process to ensure consistency with the goals of energy independence, economic growth and cost effective environmental regulation. On April 4, 2017, the EPA announced in the Federal Register that it is initiating its review of the Power Plant NSPS and CPP. On April 28, 2017, the D.C. 19 Table of Contents Circuit paused legal challenges to both the CPP and the Power Plant NSPS for 60 days to allow parties in each of those cases to brief the court on whether the case should be remanded to the agency or kept on hold, and in a series of orders since, has continued to hold the cases in abeyance while EPA rulemaking regarding CPP continues. In October 2017, EPA issued a proposed rule to rescind the CPP, and on August 31, 2018, published the ACE Rule, a proposed replacement of the CPP. In contrast to the CPP, which called for the shifting of electricity generation away from coal fired sources towards natural gas and renewables, the ACE Rule would focus on reducing GHG emissions from existing coal fired plants by requiring states to mandate the implementation of a range of technologies at power plants designed to improve their heat rate (i.e., decrease the amount of fuel necessary to generate the same amount of electricity). The outcome of these rulemakings is uncertain and likely to be subject to extensive notice and comment and litigation. More stringent standards for carbon dioxide emissions as a result of these rulemakings could further reduce demand for coal, and our business would be adversely impacted. Various states and regions have adopted GHG initiatives and certain governmental bodies, including the states of Virginia and California, have or are considering the imposition of fees or taxes based on the emission of GHGs by certain facilities. A number of states have enacted legislative mandates requiring electricity suppliers to use renewable energy sources to generate a certain percentage of power. For example, on September 10, 2018 California adopted a law that requires all electricity consumed by the state to be generated from renewable sources such as solar, wind and hydropower by 2045. In addition, certain banks and other financing sources have taken actions to limit available financing for the development of new coal fueled power plants, which also may adversely impact the future global demand for coal. Further, there have been recent efforts by members of the general financial and investment communities, such as investment advisors, sovereign wealth funds, public pension funds, universities and other groups, to divest themselves and to promote the divestment of securities issued by companies involved in the fossil fuel extraction market, such as coal producers. Those entities also have been pressuring lenders to limit financing available to such companies. These efforts may adversely affect the market for our securities and our ability to access capital and financial markets in the future. Furthermore, several well funded non governmental organizations have explicitly undertaken campaigns to minimize or eliminate the use of coal as a source of electricity generation. These efforts, as well as concerted conservation and efficiency efforts that result in reduced electricity consumption, could cause coal prices and sales of our coal to materially decline and possibly increase our operating costs. These and other current or future global climate change laws, regulations, court orders or other legally enforceable mechanisms, or related public perceptions regarding climate change, are expected to require additional controls on coal fired power plants and industrial boilers and may cause some users of coal to further switch from coal to alternative sources of fuel, thereby depressing demand and pricing for coal. Clean Water Act The CWA and corresponding state and local laws and regulations affect coal mining operations by restricting the discharge of pollutants, including dredged or fill materials, into waters of the U.S. The CWA provisions and associated state and federal regulations are complex and subject to amendments, legal challenges and changes in implementation. Legislation that seeks to clarify the scope of CWA jurisdiction has also been considered by Congress. Recent court decisions, regulatory actions and proposed legislation have created uncertainty over CWA jurisdiction and permitting requirements. CWA requirements that may directly or indirectly affect our operations include the following Wastewater Discharge Prior to discharging any pollutants into waters of the United States, coal mining companies must obtain a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System ( NPDES ) permit from the appropriate state or federal permitting authority. Section 402 of the CWA creates a process for establishing effluent limitations for discharges to streams that are protective of water quality standards through the NPDES program, and corresponding programs implemented by state regulatory agencies. Regular monitoring, reporting and compliance with performance standards are preconditions for the issuance and renewal of NPDES permits that govern discharges into waters of the U.S. Failure to comply with the CWA or NPDES permits can lead to the imposition of significant penalties, litigation, compliance costs and delays in coal production. Furthermore, the imposition of future restrictions on the discharge of certain pollutants into waters of the U.S. could increase the difficulty of obtaining and complying with NPDES permits, which could impose additional time and cost burdens on our operations. For instance, waters that states have designated as impaired (i.e., as not meeting present water quality standards) are subject to Total Maximum Daily Load regulations, which may lead to the adoption of more stringent discharge standards for our coal mines and could require more costly treatment. 20 Table of Contents In addition, when water quality in a receiving stream is of high quality, states are required to conduct an anti degradation review before approving discharge permits. Anti degradation policies may increase the cost, time and difficulty associated with obtaining and complying with NPDES permits and may also require more costly treatment. On March 5, 2014, EPA, the U.S. Department of Justice ( DOJ ), West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and the Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet filed a Complaint against Alpha and its permit holding subsidiaries in Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia alleging that Alpha mining affiliates in those states and in Tennessee and Virginia exceeded certain water discharge permit limits during the period of 2006 to 2013 and simultaneously entered into a Consent Decree with Alpha resolving their claims. The Consent Decree was entered by the Southern District of West Virginia on November 26, 2014 and amended on June 12, 2016 and again on February 28, 2018 (the Alpha Consent Decree ). As part of the Alpha Consent Decree, Alpha agreed to implement an integrated environmental management system and an expanded auditing reporting protocol, install selenium and osmotic pressure treatment facilities at specific locations, and certain other measures. The Alpha Consent Decree required Alpha to pay $27.5 million in civil penalties, to be divided among the federal government and state agencies. All required water treatment systems have been constructed, the environmental management system has been implemented, and the other terms and conditions of the Alpha Consent Decree have been substantially satisfied. We remain subject to the Alpha Consent Decree and pay stipulated penalties to the U.S. government and the state of West Virginia when water discharge permit limitations are exceeded. We have been and are currently in material compliance with our obligations under the Alpha Consent Decree. Discussions continue with EPA and DOJ to terminate the Alpha Consent Decree based upon satisfactory compliance. Dredge and Fill Permits Many mining activities, including the development of settling ponds and the construction of certain sediment control structures, valley fills and surface impoundments, require permits from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ( COE ) under Section 404 of the CWA. Generally speaking, these Section 404 permits allow the placement of dredge and fill materials into navigable waters of the U.S., including wetlands, streams, and other regulated areas. The COE has issued general nationwide permits for specific categories of activities that are similar in nature and that are determined to have minimal adverse effects on the environment. Permits issued pursuant to Nationwide Permits 5, 21, 49 and 50 generally authorize the disposal of dredged or fill material from surface coal mining activities into waters of the U.S., subject to certain restrictions. Nationwide Permits are typically reissued for a five year period and require appropriate mitigation, and permit holders must receive explicit authorization from the COE before proceeding with proposed mining activities. The COE reauthorized use of nationwide permits for surface and underground coal mines in January 2017. Expansion of our mining operations into new areas may trigger the need for individual COE approvals which could be more costly and take more time to obtain. In June 2015, the EPA and the COE published a new, more expansive, definition of waters of the United States, ( WOTUS ) now known as the Clean Water Rule ( CWR ) under the CWA. The CWR is the subject of extensive ongoing litigation and administrative proceedings and its current and future impact on our operations are the subject of significant uncertainty. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit has stayed the CWR nationwide pending further action of the court. In response to this decision, the EPA and the COE resumed nationwide use of the agencies prior regulations defining WOTUS. On January 22, 2018, the Supreme Court reversed the Sixth Circuit's decision, ruling that jurisdiction over challenges to the CWR rests with the federal district courts and not with the appellate courts, which was followed by the dissolution of the stay by the Sixth Circuit. On February 6, 2018, the EPA and COE published a rule that delayed applicability of the CWR for 2 years. However, on August 16, 2018, the federal court in South Carolina enjoined the rule, effectively reinstating the CWR in Virginia and Pennsylvania (where we have operations) and in 24 other states. The injunction is being challenged on appeal. However, our West Virginia operations remain unaffected by the CWR, due to separate injunctions issued by federal courts in Georgia and North Dakota applicable to West Virginia and 23 other states. On February 28, 2017, while challenges to the CWR were pending, President Trump signed an executive order directing the EPA and the COE to review the CWR for consistency with the goals of promoting economic growth and minimizing regulatory uncertainty and to consider a new rule that reflects Justice Scalia plurality opinion in the 2006 Supreme Court decision, Rapanos v. United States , that CWA jurisdiction attaches only to navigable waters and other waters with a relatively permanent flow, such as rivers or lakes. On March 6, 2017, the EPA and the COE published a Notice of Intent to review and rescind or revise the rule and on June 29, 2018 the EPA and the COE published a supplemental notice indicating their intention to repeal the CWR and providing a variety of reasons to support such a repeal. The EPA published a proposed new definition of WOTUS on February 14, 2019. The process to undo and replace the CWR will likely be subject to continued extensive notice, comment and litigation. Cooling Water Intake In May 2014, the EPA issued a new final rule pursuant to Section 316(b) of the CWA that affects the cooling water intake structures at power plants in order to reduce fish impingement and entrainment. The rule is expected to affect over 500 power 21 Table of Contents plants. These requirements could increase our customers costs and may adversely affect the demand for coal, which may materially impact our results or operations. Effluent Guidelines On November 3, 2015, the EPA published the final rule for Effluent Limitations Guidelines and Standards ( ELGS ), revising the regulations for the Steam Electric Power Generating category which became effective on January 4, 2016. It establishes the first federal limits on the levels of arsenic, mercury, selenium and nitrate nitrites in flue gas desulfurization that can be discharged as wastewater from power plants, based on technology improvements over the last 3 decades. On April 25, 2017 the EPA stayed the implementation of the rule indefinitely to allow for reconsideration. This stay is the subject of legal challenges. EPA is currently reviewing the rule and is expected to issue updated ELGS sometime in 2019. Endangered Species Act The ESA and counterpart state legislation protect species threatened with possible extinction. Protection of threatened and endangered species may have the effect of prohibiting or delaying us from obtaining mining permits and mine plan modifications and approvals, and may include restrictions on timber harvesting, road building and other mining activities in areas containing the affected species or their habitats. We may also need to obtain additional permits or approvals if the incidental take of these species in the course of otherwise lawful activity may occur, which could take more time, be more costly and have adverse effects on operations. A number of species indigenous to properties we control or surrounding areas are protected under the ESA. Certain other sensitive species which are not currently protected by the ESA may also require protection and mitigation efforts consistent with federal and state requirements. ESA regulatory review is currently underway at the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Agency ( FWS ) and on July 25, 2018 the FWS issued proposed regulatory amendments that are considered to be favorable to our industry. After the Stream Protection Rule and the accompanying 2016 Biological Opinion were repealed in February 2017, OSM issued a Section 7(d) determination that reinitiated consultation with the FWS to develop a new Biological Opinion. A new Biological Opinion could make compliance with the ESA more difficult and expensive. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act RCRA affects coal mining operations by establishing requirements for the treatment, storage, and disposal of hazardous wastes. The EPA determined that coal combustion residuals ( CCR ) do not warrant regulation as hazardous wastes under RCRA in May 2000. Most state hazardous waste laws do not regulate CCR as hazardous wastes. The EPA also concluded that beneficial uses of CCR, other than for mine filling, pose no significant risk and no additional national regulations of such beneficial uses are needed. However, the EPA determined that national non hazardous waste regulations under RCRA are warranted for certain wastes generated from coal combustion, such as coal ash, when the wastes are disposed of in surface impoundments or landfills or used as minefill. In December 2014, the EPA finalized regulations that address the management of coal ash as a non hazardous solid waste under Subtitle D. The rules impose engineering, structural and siting standards on surface impoundments and landfills that hold coal combustion wastes and mandate regular inspections. The rules also require fugitive dust controls and impose various monitoring, cleanup, and closure requirements. In July 2018, the EPA published a final rule extending certain deadlines under the original rules, granting certain authority to states with authorized CCR programs and establishing groundwater protection standards for certain constituents. EPA and OSM plan additional rulemaking relating to CCR. There have also been several legislative proposals that would require the EPA to further regulate the storage of CCR. For example, in December 2016, Congress passed the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act, which allows states to establish permit programs to regulate the disposal of CCR units in lieu of the EPA CCR regulations. These requirements, as well as any future changes in the management of CCR, could increase our customers operating costs and potentially reduce their ability or need to purchase coal. In addition, contamination caused by the past disposal of CCR, including coal ash, can lead to material liability for our customers under RCRA or other federal or state laws and potentially further reduce the demand for coal. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act CERCLA and similar state laws affect coal mining operations by, among other things, imposing cleanup requirements for threatened or actual releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under CERCLA and similar state laws, joint and several liability may be imposed on hazardous substance generators, site owners, transporters, lessees and others regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal activity. Although the EPA currently excludes most wastes generated by coal mining and processing operations from the primary hazardous waste laws. The disposal, release or spilling of some products used by 22 Table of Contents coal companies in operations, such as chemicals, could trigger the liability provisions of CERCLA or similar state laws. Thus, we may be subject to liability under CERCLA and similar state laws for our current or former owned, leased or operated coal mines and property or those of our predecessors. We may be liable under CERCLA or similar state laws for the cleanup of hazardous substance contamination and natural resource damages at sites where we control surface rights. These liabilities could be significant and materially and adversely impact our financial results and liquidity. Use of Explosives. Our surface mining operations are subject to numerous regulations relating to blasting activities. Pursuant to these regulations, we incur costs to design and implement blast schedules and to conduct pre blast surveys and blast monitoring. In addition, the storage of explosives is subject to regulatory requirements. For example, pursuant to a rule issued by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) in 2007, facilities in possession of chemicals of interest (including ammonium nitrate at certain threshold levels) are required to complete a screening review. In 2011, the DHS published proposed regulations of ammonium nitrate under the Ammonium Nitrate Security Rule. Many of the requirements of the proposed regulations would be duplicative of those in place under the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms, including registration and background checks, and DHS has moved its 2011 rulemaking to a non active status because the approach proposed was unlikely to deliver appreciable security benefits. Additional requirements may include tracking and verifications for each transaction related to ammonium nitrate. A final rule has yet to be issued. In December 2014, the OSM announced its decision to pursue a rulemaking to revise regulations under SMCRA which will address all blast generated fumes and toxic gases. OSM has not yet issued a proposed rule to address these blasts. The outcome of these rulemakings could materially adversely impact our cost or ability to conduct our mining operations. Other Environmental Laws We are required to comply with numerous other federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations in addition to those previously discussed. These additional laws include, for example, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Toxic Substances Control Act and transportation laws adopted to ensure the appropriate transportation of our coal both nationally and internationally. Laws, regulations, and treaties of other countries may also adversely impact our export sales by reducing demand for our coal as a source of power generation in those countries. Federal and State Nuclear Material Regulations Many of our operations use equipment with radioactive sources primarily for coal density measurement. Use of this equipment must be approved by the U. S. Nuclear Regulatory Authority or the state agency that has been delegated this authority. Mine Safety and Health Stringent health and safety standards have been in effect since Congress enacted the Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969. The Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 ( Mine Act ) significantly expanded the enforcement of safety and health standards and imposed safety and health standards on all aspects of mining operations. All of the states in which we operate also have state programs for mine safety and health regulation and enforcement. Collectively, federal and state safety and health regulation in the coal mining industry is among the most comprehensive and pervasive systems for protection of employee health and safety affecting any segment of U.S. industry. The Mine Act is a strict liability statute that requires mandatory inspections of surface and underground coal mines and preparation plants and requires the issuance of enforcement action when it is believed that a standard has been violated. While this regulation has a significant effect on our operating costs, our U.S. competitors are subject to the same degree of regulation. In 2006, in response to underground mine accidents, Congress enacted the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act (the MINER Act ). The MINER Act significantly amended the Mine Act, requiring, among other Item, improvements in mine safety practices, increasing criminal penalties and establishing a maximum civil penalty for non compliance, and expanding the scope of federal oversight, inspection and enforcement activities. Since passage of the MINER Act enforcement scrutiny has increased, including more inspection hours at mine sites, increased numbers of inspections and increased issuance of the number and severity of enforcement actions and related penalties. Various states also have enacted their own new laws and regulations addressing many of these same subjects. The U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration ( MSHA ) continues to interpret and implement various provisions of the MINER Act, along with introducing new proposed regulations and standards. For example, the second phase of MSHA respirable coal mine dust rule went into effect in February 2016 and requires increased sampling frequency and the use of continuous personal dust monitors. In August 2016, the third and final phase of the rule became effective, reducing the overall respirable dust standard in coal mines from 20 to 15 milligrams per cubic meter of air. Our compliance with these or any other new mine health and safety regulations could 23 Table of Contents increase our mining costs. If we were found to be in violation of these regulations we could face penalties or restrictions that may materially and adversely affect impact our operations, financial results and liquidity. Under the Black Lung Benefits Revenue Act of 1977 and the Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977, as amended in 1981, each coal mine operator must secure payment of federal black lung benefits to claimants who are current and former employees and to a trust fund for the payment of benefits and medical expenses to claimants who last worked in the coal industry prior to July 1, 1973 Effective January 1, 2019, the trust fund is funded by an excise tax on production of up to $0.50 per ton for deep mined coal and up to $0.25 per ton for surface mined coal, neither amount to exceed 2% of the gross sales price. The excise tax does not apply to coal shipped outside the United States. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $6.4 million and $7.7 million, respectively, of expense related to this excise tax. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( PPACA ) introduced significant changes to the federal black lung program, including an automatic survivor benefit paid upon the death of a miner with an awarded black lung claim, and established a rebuttable presumption with regard to pneumoconiosis among miners with 15 or more years of coal mine employment that are totally disabled by a respiratory condition. These changes could have a material impact on our costs expended in association with the federal black lung program. For former mining employees meeting statutory eligibility standards for Federal Black Lung benefits, we maintain a trust fund and insurance coverage to cover the cost of present and future claims. We may also be liable under state laws for black lung claims that are covered through the trust and insurance policies. The liability associated with present and future claims for black lung benefits is difficult to estimate, and the trust and insurance policies may be insufficient to cover all such liability. Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992 Unlike many companies in the coal business, we do not have any liability under the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992 (the Coal Act ), which requires the payment of substantial sums to provide lifetime health benefits to union represented miners (and their dependents) who retired before 1992, because liabilities under the Coal Act that had been imposed on Alpha were settled in the bankruptcy process. GLOSSARY Acquisition. Refers to the transaction by which Contura acquired certain of Alpha core coal operations as part of the Alpha Restructuring. Alpha. Alpha Natural Resources, Inc. Alpha Plan of Reorganization. Alpha plan of reorganization approved on July 7, 2016 and effective as of July 26, 2016. Alpha Restructuring. The series of bankruptcy restructuring transactions which led to Alpha emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy on July 26, 2016. Ash. Impurities consisting of iron, alumina and other incombustible matter that are contained in coal. Since ash increases the weight of coal, it adds to the cost of handling and can affect the burning characteristics of coal. Assigned reserves. Coal that is planned to be mined at an operation that is currently operating, currently idled, or for which permits have been submitted and plans are eventually to develop the operation. Back to Back Coal Supply Agreement. An agreement with Blackjewel (the Buyer ) under the terms of the asset purchase agreement associated with the sale of PRB under which the Buyer will supply, deliver and sell to the Company, and the Company will accept, purchase and pay for, all coal that the Company is obligated to supply, deliver and sell under PRB coal supply agreements existing as of the transaction closing date that did not transfer to the Buyer at closing. British Thermal Unit or BTU. A measure of the thermal energy required to raise the temperature of 1 pound of pure liquid water 1 degree Fahrenheit at the temperature at which water has its greatest density (39 degrees Fahrenheit). Central Appalachia or CAPP. Coal producing area in eastern Kentucky, Virginia, southern West Virginia and a portion of eastern Tennessee. Coal seam. Coal deposits occur in layers. Each layer is called a seam. 24 Table of Contents Coke. A hard, dry carbon substance produced by heating coal to a very high temperature in the absence of air. Coke is used in the manufacture of iron and steel. Its production results in a number of useful byproducts. Longwall mining. The most productive underground mining method in the United States. A rotating drum is trammed mechanically across the face of coal, and a hydraulic system supports the roof of the mine while the drum advances through the coal. Chain conveyors then move the loosened coal to a standard underground mine conveyor system for delivery to the surface. Metallurgical coal. The various grades of coal suitable for carbonization to make coke for steel manufacture. Also known as met coal, its quality depends on four important criteria volatility, which affects coke yield; the level of impurities including sulfur and ash, which affect coke quality; composition, which affects coke strength; and basic characteristics, which affect coke oven safety. Met coal typically has a particularly high BTU but low ash and sulfur content. Northern Appalachia or NAPP. Coal producing area in Maryland, Ohio, Pennsylvania and northern West Virginia. Operating Margin. Coal revenues less cost of coal sales and freight and handling costs. Powder River Basin or PRB. Coal producing area in northeastern Wyoming and southeastern Montana. Preparation plant. A preparation plant is a facility for crushing, sizing and washing coal to remove impurities and prepare it for use by a particular customer. The washing process has the added benefit of removing some of the coal sulfur content. A preparation plant is usually located on a mine site, although 1 plant may serve several mines. Probable reserves. Reserves for which quantity and grade and or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. Productivity. As used in this report, refers to clean metric tons of coal produced per underground man hour worked, as published by the MSHA. Proven reserves. Reserves for which quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. Reclamation. The process of restoring land and the environment to their original state following mining activities. The process commonly includes recontouring or reshaping the land to its approximate original appearance, restoring topsoil and planting native grass and ground covers. Reclamation operations are usually underway before the mining of a particular site is completed. Reclamation is closely regulated by both state and federal law. Recoverable reserves. Metric tons of mineable coal that can be extracted and marketed after deduction for coal to be left behind within the seam (i.e., pillars left to hold up the ceiling, coal not economical to recover within the mine, etc.) and adjusted for reasonable preparation and handling losses. Reserve. That part of a mineral deposit that could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Roof. The stratum of rock or other mineral above a coal seam; the overhead surface of a coal working place. Sulfur. 1 of the elements present in varying quantities in coal that contributes to environmental degradation when coal is burned. Sulfur dioxide is produced as a gaseous by product of coal combustion. Surface mine. A mine in which the coal lies near the surface and can be extracted by removing the covering layer of soil. Thermal coal. Coal used by power plants and industrial steam boilers to produce electricity, steam or both. It generally is lower in BTU heat content and higher in volatile matter than metallurgical coal. 25 Table of Contents Tons. A short or net ton is equal to 2,000 pounds. A long or British ton is equal to 2,240 pounds; a metric ton (or tonne ) is approximately 2,205 pounds. Tonnage amounts in this prospectus are stated in short tons, unless otherwise indicated. Unassigned reserves. Coal that is likely to be mined in the future, but which is not considered Assigned reserves. Underground mine. Also known as a deep mine. Usually located several hundred feet below the earth surface, an underground mine coal is removed mechanically and transferred by shuttle car and conveyor to the surface. 26 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Investment in our common stock is subject to various risks, including risks and uncertainties inherent in our business. The following sets forth factors related to our business, operations, financial position, or future financial performance or cash flows, which could cause an investment in our securities to decline and result in a loss. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and or operating results. Risk Relating to the Alpha Merger We may not realize the expected business or financial benefits of the Alpha Merger. Integration of the companies could prove difficult, which could disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results and the market value of our common stock. We may not realize the expected business or financial benefit from the integration of the Contura and Alpha operations. These potential difficulties could cause the results of the Alpha Merger to differ from our expectations, including, but not limited to, the following failure to implement our business plan for the combined business or to achieve anticipated production, revenue or profitability targets; higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings and or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties; difficulties in, and the cost of, integrating operations, technologies, services, platforms and personnel; diversion of attention and resources of management; inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset Merger or investment costs; potential unknown liabilities associated with the merged businesses; and challenges relating to the structure of an investment, such as governance, accountability and decision making conflicts that may arise in the context of a Merger. Difficulties like these could disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results and the market value of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Industry and the Global Economy Declines in coal prices would reduce our revenues and adversely affect our operating results, cash flows, financial condition, stock price and the value of our coal reserves. Our results of operations are substantially dependent upon the prices we receive for our coal. Those prices depend upon factors beyond our control (some of which are described in more detail in other risk factors below), including the demand for domestic and foreign coal and coke, which depends significantly on the demand for electricity and steel; the price and availability of natural gas, other alternative fuels and alternative steel production technologies; domestic and foreign economic conditions, including economic downturns and the strength of the global and U.S. economies; the consumption pattern of industrial customers, electricity generators and residential users; the legal, regulatory and tax environment for our industry and those of our customers; adverse weather, climactic or other natural conditions, including natural disasters; the quantity, quality and pricing of coal available in the resale market; the effects of worldwide energy conservation or emissions measures; competition from other suppliers of coal and other energy sources; and the proximity to and availability, reliability and cost of transportation and port facilities. Declines in coal prices in the U.S. and other countries may materially adversely affect our operating results and cash flows, as well as the value of our coal reserves and may cause the number of risks that we face to increase in likelihood, magnitude and duration. 27 Table of Contents Lower demand for metallurgical coal (or met coal ) by U.S. and foreign steel producers, including negative effects resulting from the imposition of tariffs, could reduce the price of our met coal, which would reduce our revenues. Contura produces met coal that is sold directly to both U.S. and foreign steel industry customers and indirectly to foreign steel industry customers through U.S. based companies. Met coal accounted for approximately 832% of our coal revenues (excluding freight and handling revenues) for the year ended December 31, 2018. Any deterioration in conditions in the U.S. or foreign steel industries, including the demand for steel and the continued financial viability of the industry, could reduce the demand for our met coal and could impact the collectability of our accounts receivable from U.S. or foreign steel industry customers. The demand for foreign produced steel both in foreign markets and in the U.S. market also depends on factors such as tariff rates on steel. On March 8, 2018, President Trump signed proclamations imposing a 25 percent tariff on imports of steel mill products and a 10 percent tariff on imports of wrought and unwrought aluminum. Contura export customers include foreign steel producers who may be affected by the tariffs to the extent their production is imported into the U.S. Conversely, demand for met coal from our domestic customers may increase. Retaliatory tariffs by foreign nations have already limited international trade and may adversely impact global economic conditions. In addition, the steel industry demand for met coal is affected by a number of factors, including the variable nature of that industry business, technological developments in the steel making process and the availability of substitutes for steel, such as aluminum, composites and plastics. The U.S. steel industry increasingly relies on processes to make steel that do not use coke, such as electric arc furnaces or pulverized coal processes. If this trend continues, the amount of met coal that we sell and the prices that we receive for it could decrease, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. Lower demand for met coal in international markets could reduce the amount of met coal that we sell and the prices that we receive for it, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. Foreign government policies related to coal production and consumption could negatively impact pricing and demand for our products. Lower demand for thermal coal by North American electric power generators could reduce the price of our thermal coal, which would reduce our revenues. Thermal coal accounted for approximately 16.8% of our coal revenues (excluding freight and handling revenues) for the year ended December 31, 2018. The majority of our sales of thermal coal were to U.S. electric power generators. The North American demand for thermal coal is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity, which is in turn influenced by the global economy and the weather, among other factors (for example, mild North American winters typically result in lower demand); the availability, quality and price of competing fuels, such as natural gas, nuclear fuel, oil and alternative energy sources such as wind, solar, and hydroelectric power, which may change over time as a result of, among other things, technological developments and state or federal regulatory or statutory fuel subsidies or energy use mandates; increasingly stringent environmental and other governmental regulations, including air emission standards for coal fired power plants; and the coal inventories of utilities. Many North American electric power generators have shifted from coal to natural gas fired power plants. Despite ongoing advancements in the availability and deployment of advanced coal and emissions reduction technologies, we expect that new power plants in the near term will be fired by natural gas because natural gas fired plants are less expensive to construct than coal fired plants and natural gas is a cleaner burning fuel, with plentiful supplies and low cost at the current time. Increasingly stringent regulations have also reduced the number of new power plants being built, particularly coal fired power plants. A reduction in the amount of coal consumed by North American electric power generators would reduce the amount of thermal coal that we sell and the price that we receive for it, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. In addition, uncertainty caused by federal and state regulations could cause thermal coal customers to be uncertain of their coal requirements in future years, which could adversely affect our ability to sell coal to such customers under multi year sales contracts. Competition within the coal industry may adversely affect our ability to sell coal, and excess production capacity in the industry could put downward pressure on coal prices. We compete with numerous other coal producers in various regions of the U.S. for domestic and international sales. We also compete in international markets against coal producers in other countries. International demand for U.S. coal exports also affects coal demand in the U.S. This competition affects domestic and foreign coal prices and our ability to retain or attract coal 28 Table of Contents customers. Increased competition from the Illinois basin, the threat of increased production from competing mines, and natural gas price declines with large basis differentials have all historically contributed to soft market conditions. In the past, high demand for coal and attractive pricing brought new investors to the coal industry, leading to the development of new mines and added production capacity. Subsequent overcapacity in the industry contributed, and may in the future contribute, to lower coal prices. Potential changes to international trade agreements, trade concessions, foreign currency fluctuations or other political and economic arrangements may benefit coal producers operating in countries other than the United States. Additionally, North American steel producers face competition from foreign steel producers, which could adversely impact the financial condition and business of our customers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete on the basis of price or other factors with companies that in the future may benefit from favorable foreign trade policies or other arrangements. Coal is sold internationally in U.S. dollars and, as a result, general economic conditions in foreign markets and changes in foreign currency exchange rates may provide our foreign competitors with a competitive advantage. If our competitors currencies decline against the U.S. dollar or against our foreign customers local currencies, those competitors may be able to offer lower prices for coal to customers. Furthermore, if the currencies of our overseas customers were to significantly decline in value in comparison to the U.S. dollar, those customers may seek decreased prices for the coal we sell to them. Consequently, currency fluctuations could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal in international markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Business Competition. Similarly, currency fluctuations could adversely affect demand for U.S. steel. Lower demand for U.S. coal exports would reduce our foreign sales, could negatively impact our revenues and could result in downward pressure on domestic coal prices. Coal export revenues accounted for approximately 79.3% of our total coal revenues (excluding freight and handling revenues) for the year ended December 31, 2018. In addition to the factors described above, demand for and viability of U.S. coal exports is dependent upon a number of factors outside of our control, including ocean freight rates and port and shipping capacity. In addition, trade conflicts between the United States and other nations that result in the imposition of barriers to trade, such as import tariffs, could materially and adversely affect the international demand and pricing for our coal. The current presidential administration has taken actions, including imposing tariffs on certain goods imported into the U.S., that have resulted in other nations adopting retaliatory measures such as the imposition of tariffs upon goods imported from the U.S. into those nations. China and Turkey, for example, have imposed tariffs upon the importing of coal from the U.S. The imposition of these trade barriers by other nations has already resulted in adverse effects upon our international sales of coal, including reduced demand and prices. If these barriers endure, or are enhanced, our coal exports may further decline, and increased domestic supply could cause competition among coal producers in the U.S. to intensify, potentially resulting in additional downward pressure on domestic coal prices and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition with natural gas and renewable energy sources, and factors affecting these industries could have an adverse impact on coal demand. Our coal competes with natural gas and renewable energy sources, and the price of these sources can therefore affect coal sales. The natural gas market has been volatile historically and prices in this market are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Changes in supply and demand could be prompted by any number of factors, such as worldwide and regional economic and political conditions; the level of global exploration, production and inventories; natural gas prices; and transportation availability. If natural gas prices decline significantly, it could lead to reduced coal sales and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, state and federal mandates for increased use of electricity from renewable energy sources also have an impact on the market for our coal. Several states have enacted legislative mandates requiring electricity suppliers to use renewable energy sources to generate a certain percentage of power. There have been numerous proposals to establish a similar uniform, national standard although n1 of these proposals have been enacted to date. Possible advances in technologies and incentives, such as tax credits, to enhance the economics of renewable energy sources could make these sources more competitive with coal. Any reduction in the amount of coal consumed by electric power generators could reduce the price of coal that we mine and sell, thereby reducing our revenues and materially and adversely affecting our business and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Future governmental policy changes in China may be detrimental to the global coal market and impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Chinese government has from time to time implemented regulations and promulgated new laws or restrictions on their domestic coal industry, sometimes with little advance notice, which may impact worldwide coal demand, supply and prices. The recent rise from historic lows in prices was driven in part by government policies in China that curbed domestic supply. During the past several years, the Chinese government has initiated a number of anti smog measures aimed at reducing hazardous air emissions through temporary production capacity restrictions within the steel, coal and coal fired power sectors. It is possible that policy changes from Beijing may be detrimental to the global coal market and, thus, impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, similar actions by government entities in countries that produce and or consume large quantities of coal and other energy related commodities, such as India, may have a material impact on the prices at which we sell our product. The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest customers could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our largest customer during the year ended December 31, 2018 accounted for approximately 16.7% of our total coal revenues, and coal sales to our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 60.1% of our total coal revenues. These customers may not continue to purchase coal from us as they have previously, or at all. If these customers were to reduce their purchases of coal significantly or if we were unable to sell coal to them on terms as favorable to us, our revenues and profitability could suffer. We may not be able to extend our existing long term supply contracts or enter into new 1s, and our existing supply contracts may contain certain provisions that may reduce protection from short term coal price volatility, which could adversely affect the profitability of our operations. A substantial portion of our thermal coal is sold under long term contracts. When our current contracts with customers expire or are otherwise renegotiated, our customers may decide to purchase fewer tons of coal than in the past or on terms, including pricing terms, that are not as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements. Further, in large part as a result of increasing and frequently changing regulation, and natural gas pricing, electric power generators are increasingly less willing to enter into long term coal supply contracts, instead purchasing higher percentages of coal under short term supply contracts. This industry shift away from long term supply contracts could adversely affect us and the level of our revenues. For example, our having fewer customers with a contractual obligation to purchase coal from us increases the risk that we will not have a consistent market for our production and may require us to sell more coal in the spot market, where prices may be lower than we would expect a customer to pay for a contractually committed supply. Spot market prices also tend to be more volatile than contractual prices, which could result in decreased revenues. Our met coal supply contracts are typically priced on an annual, quarterly or spot basis, and therefore our met coal sales are particularly sensitive to repricing risk. Generally, our long term thermal coal agreements contain committed volumes and fixed prices for a certain number of periods during which thermal coal will be delivered. However, some of our long term thermal coal agreements do not provide for a fixed price through the life of the agreement. Those agreements contain price negotiation and similar provisions for upcoming unpriced contract periods, with negotiations generally considering either then current market prices and or relevant market indices. Failure of the parties to agree on a price can lead to termination of the contract or litigation, the outcome of which would be uncertain. Further, during periods of economic weakness, some of our customers experience lower demand for their products and services and may be unwilling to take all of their contracted tonnage or may request a lower price. Customers may make similar requests when market prices drop significantly. Any adjustment or negotiation leading to a significantly lower contract price could result in decreased revenues. Accordingly, supply contracts with terms of 1 year or more may provide only limited protection during adverse or volatile market conditions. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their credi2rthiness and financial health deteriorate. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued credi2rthiness and financial health of our customers. Competition with other coal suppliers could force us to extend credit to customers and on terms that could increase the risk we bear on payment default. In recent years, downturns in the economy and disruptions in the global financial markets have, from time to time, affected the credi2rthiness of our customers and limited their liquidity and credit availability. In addition, our customer base may change with deregulation as utilities sell or transfer their power plants to their 30 Table of Contents non regulated affiliates or third parties that may be less credi2rthy, thereby increasing the risk we bear for customer payment default. These new power plant owners or operators may have credit ratings that are below investment grade or may become below investment grade after we enter into contracts with them. Customers in other countries may be subject to other pressures and uncertainties that may affect their ability to pay, including trade barriers, exchange controls and local economic and political conditions. For the year ended December 31, 2018 we derived 79.3% of our total coal revenues, excluding freight and handling revenues, from coal sales made to customers outside the U.S. Economic downturns and disruptions in the global financial markets have had, and could in the future have, a material adverse effect on the demand for and price of coal, which could have a material negative effect on our sales, costs, margins and profitability and ability to obtain financing. Economic downturns and disruptions in the global financial markets have from time to time resulted in, among other things, extreme volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others, including real estate. These sorts of disruptions, and in particular the tightening of credit in financial markets, could adversely affect our customers ability to obtain financing for operations and result in a decrease in demand, lower coal prices, the cancellation of some orders for our coal and the restructuring of agreements with some of our customers. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, particularly where imported products are required for the mining process, could result in materially increased operating expenses. Any prolonged global, national or regional economic recession or other similar events could have a material adverse effect on the demand for and price of coal, on our sales, margins and profitability, and on our own ability to obtain financing. We are unable to predict the timing, duration and severity of any potential future disruptions in financial markets and potential future adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries and the impact these events may have on our operations and the industry in general. Risks Relating to Regulatory and Legal Developments The extensive regulation of the mining industry imposes significant costs on us, and future regulations or violations could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce coal. Our operations are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental, health and safety, transportation, labor and other laws and regulations relating to matters such as blasting; controls on emissions and discharges; the effects of operations on surface water and groundwater quality and availability; the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes; the remediation of contaminated soil, surface water and groundwater; surface subsidence from underground mining; the classification of plant and animal species near our mines as endangered or threatened species; the reclamation of mined sites; and employee health and safety, and benefits for current and former employees (described in more detail below). These laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent. For example federal and state agencies and citizen groups have increasingly focused on the amount of selenium and other constituents in mine related water discharges; MSHA and the states of Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia have implemented and proposed changes to mine safety and health requirements to impose more stringent health and safety controls, enhance mine inspection and enforcement practices, increase sanctions, and expand monitoring and reporting; and GHG emissions is being considered that could increase our costs, require additional controls, or compel us to limit our current operations. In addition, these laws and regulations require us to obtain numerous governmental permits and comply with the requirements of those permits (described in more detail below). We incur substantial costs to comply with the laws, regulations and permits that apply to our mining and other operations, and to address the outcome of inspections. The required compliance and actions to address inspection outcomes are often time consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production. In addition, due in part to the extensive and comprehensive regulatory requirements, violations of laws, regulations and permits occur at our operations from time to 31 Table of Contents time and may result in significant costs to us to correct the violations, as well as substantial civil or criminal penalties and limitations or shutdowns of our operations. We are also required to comply with the November 2014 Consent Decree with EPA and several government agencies. See Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters Clean Water Act Wastewater Discharge. MSHA and state regulators may also order the temporary or permanent closing of a mine in the event of certain violations of safety rules, accidents or imminent dangers. In addition, regulators may order changes to mine plans or operations due to their interpretation or application of existing or new laws or regulations. Any required changes to mine plans or operations may result in temporary idling of production or addition of costs. These factors have had and will continue to have a significant effect on our costs of production and competitive position, and as a result on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. New laws and regulations, as well as future interpretations or different enforcement of existing laws and regulations, may have a similar or more significant impact on us, including delays, interruptions or a termination of operations. Climate change or carbon dioxide emissions reduction initiatives could significantly reduce the demand for coal and reduce the value of our coal assets. Global climate issues continue to attract considerable public and scientific attention. Numerous reports, such as the Fourth and Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, have also engendered concern about the impacts of human activity, and in particular the emissions of GHG, such as carbon dioxide and methane, on global climate issues. Combustion of fossil fuels like coal results in the creation of carbon dioxide, which is emitted into the atmosphere by coal end users such as coal fired electric power generators, coke plants and steelmaking plants, and, to a lesser extent, by the combustion of fossil fuels by the mining equipment we use. In addition, coal mining can release methane from the mine, directly into the atmosphere. Concerns associated with global climate change, and GHG emissions reduction initiatives designed to address them, have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in decreased coal fired power plant capacity and utilization, phasing out and closing many existing coal fired power plants, reducing or eliminating construction of new coal fired power plants in the United States and certain other countries, increased costs to mine coal, and decreased demand and prices for coal. Emissions from coal consumption and production are subject to pending and proposed regulations as part of regulatory initiatives to address global climate change and global warming. Various international, federal, regional, foreign and state proposals are currently in place or being considered to limit emissions of GHGs, including possible future U.S. treaty commitments, new federal or state legislation, and regulation under existing environmental laws by the EPA and other regulatory agencies and litigation by private parties. These include the 2015 Paris climate summit agreement, which resulted in voluntary commitments by 197 countries (although on June 1, 2017, the Trump administration announced that the U.S. will withdraw from the agreement) to reduce their GHG emissions and could result in additional firm commitments by various nations and states with respect to future GHG emissions; federal regulations such as the CPP, which is currently stayed by the U.S. Supreme Court, and the ACE Rule, which has been proposed to replace the CPP, that require reductions in emissions from existing fossil fuel fired power plants, and new source performance standards for GHG emissions for new, modified or reconstructed fossil fuel fired power plants (Power Plant NSPS), which require the use of partial carbon capture and sequestration for fossil fuel fired steam generating units (although a proposed revision to the Power Plant NSPS would revise this requirement, as discussed below), or any regulation that replaces them; state and regional climate change initiatives implementing renewable portfolio standards or cap and trade schemes; challenges to or denials of permits for new coal fired power plants or retrofits to existing plants by state regulators and environmental organizations due to concerns related to GHG emissions from the new or existing plants; and private litigation against coal companies or power plant operators based on GHG related concerns. On March 28, 2017, President Trump signed the Executive Order for Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth ( March 2017 Executive Order ) that directed the EPA to review and, if appropriate, suspend, revise or rescind, both the CPP and the Power Plant NSPS as necessary to ensure consistency with the goals of energy independence, economic growth and cost effective environmental regulation. On April 4, 2017, the EPA announced in the Federal Register that it is initiating its review of the CPP and the Power Plant NSPS. On April 28, 2017, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (the D.C. Circuit ) paused legal challenges to both the CPP and the Power Plant NSPS for 60 days to allow parties in each of those cases to brief the court on whether the case should be remanded to the agency or kept on hold and in a series of orders since, has continued to hold the cases in abeyance while the EPA rulemaking regarding the CPP and the Power Plant NSPS continues. In December 2018, EPA proposed to revise the Power Plant NSPS to replace its 32 Table of Contents designation of partial carbon capture and storage as the best system of emission reduction with less stringent standards focusing on improvements in efficiency and operating practices. In October 2017, the EPA issued a proposed rule to rescind the CPP, and on August 31, 2018, the EPA published the ACE Rule, a proposed replacement of the CPP. The ACE Rule would focus on reducing GHG emissions from existing coal fired power plants by requiring states to mandate the implementation of a range of technologies at power plants designed to improve their heat rate (i.e., decrease the amount of fuel necessary to generate the same amount of electricity). The ACE Rule was subject to a 60 day comment period, which ended on October 31, 2018. The outcome of these rulemakings is uncertain and likely to be subject to extensive notice, comment and litigation. More stringent standards for carbon dioxide pollution as a result of these rulemakings could further reduce demand for coal, and our business would be adversely impacted. In addition, certain banks and other financing sources have taken actions to limit available financing for the development of new coal fueled power plants, which also may adversely impact the future global demand for coal. Further, there have been recent efforts by members of the general financial and investment communities, such as investment advisors, sovereign wealth funds, public pension funds, universities and other groups, to divest themselves and to promote the divestment of securities issued by companies involved in the fossil fuel extraction market, such as coal producers. Those entities also have been pressuring lenders to limit financing available to such companies. These efforts may adversely affect the market for our securities and our ability to access capital and financial markets in the future. Furthermore, several well funded non governmental organizations have explicitly undertaken campaigns to minimize or eliminate the use of coal as a source of electricity generation. These efforts, as well as concerted conservation and efficiency efforts that result in reduced electricity consumption, and consumer and corporate preferences for non coal fuel sources, could cause coal prices and sales of our coal to materially decline and could cause our costs to increase. Any future laws, regulations or other policies or initiatives of the nature described above may adversely impact our business in material ways. The degree to which any particular law, regulation or policy impacts us will depend on several factors, including the substantive terms involved, the relevant time periods for enactment and any related transition periods. Considerable uncertainty is associated with these regulatory initiatives and legal developments, as the content of proposed legislation and regulation is not yet fully determined, many of the new regulatory initiatives remain subject to governmental and judicial review, and, with respect to federal initiatives, the current U.S. presidential administration and or Congress may further impact their development. We routinely attempt to evaluate the potential impact on us of any proposed laws, regulations or policies, which requires that we make several material assumptions. From time to time, we determine that the impact of 1 or more such laws, regulations or policies, if adopted and ultimately implemented as proposed, may result in materially adverse impacts on our operations, financial condition or cash flow; however, we often are not able to reasonably quantify such impacts. In general, any laws, regulations or other policies aimed at reducing GHG emissions have imposed and are likely to continue to impose significant costs on many coal fired power plants, steel making plants and industrial boilers, which may make them unprofitable. Accordingly, some existing power generators have switched to other fuels that generate fewer emissions and others are likely to switch, some power plants have closed and others are likely to close, and fewer new coal fired plants are being constructed, all of which reduce demand for coal and the amount of coal that we sell and the prices that we receive for it, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. Other extensive environmental laws, including existing and potential future legislation, treaties and regulatory requirements relating to air emissions, waste management and water discharges, affect our customers and could further reduce the demand for coal as a fuel source and cause prices and sales of our coal to materially decline. Our customers operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to environmental matters, including air emissions, wastewater discharges and the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes; and operational permits. In particular, the Clean Air Act and similar state and local laws extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds emitted into the air from fossil fuel fired power plants, which are the largest end users of our thermal coal. A series of more stringent requirements will or may become effective in coming years, including implementation of the current and more stringent proposed ambient air quality standards for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter and oz1, including the EPA issuance of NAAQS in October 2015 of a more stringent ambient air quality standard for oz1 and the EPA determinations of attainment designations with respect to these rules; implementation of the EPA CSAPR to significantly reduce nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide emissions from power plants in 28 states, and the CSAPR Update Rule, issued in September 2016, requiring further reductions in nitrogen oxides in 2017 in 22 states subject to CSAPR during the summertime oz1 season; 33 Table of Contents continued implementation of the EPA MATS, which impose stringent limits on emissions of mercury and other toxic air pollutants from electric power generators, issued in December 2011 and in effect pending completion of judicial review proceedings and subject to a new draft rule proposed in December 2018 that reverses certain findings that served as the basis for MATS; implementation of the EPA August 2014 final rule on cooling water intake structures for power plants; more stringent EPA requirements governing management and disposal of coal ash pursuant to a rule finalized in December 2014 and new amendments effective as of August 2018; and implementation of the EPA November 2015 final rule setting effluent discharge limits on the levels of metals that can be discharged from power plants. These environmental laws and regulations impose significant costs on our customers, which are increasing as these requirements become more stringent. These costs make coal more expensive to use and make it a less attractive fuel source of energy for our customers. Accordingly, some existing power generators have switched to other fuels that generate fewer emissions and others are likely to switch, some power plants have closed and others are likely to close, and fewer coal fired plants are being constructed, all of which reduce demand for coal, the amount of coal that we sell and the prices that we receive for it, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. In addition, regulations regarding sulfur dioxide emissions under the Clean Air Act, including caps on emissions and the price of emissions allowances, have a potentially significant impact on the demand for our coal based on its sulfur content. We sell both higher sulfur and low sulfur coal. More widespread installation by power generators of technology that reduces sulfur emissions may make high sulfur coal more competitive with our low sulfur coal. Decreases in the price of emissions allowances could have a similar effect. Significant increases in the price of emissions allowances could reduce the competitiveness of higher sulfur coal compared to low sulfur coal and possibly natural gas at power plants not equipped to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions. Any of these consequences could result in a decrease in revenues from some of our operations, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our long term growth, and particularly that of our thermal coal platform, may be materially adversely impacted if economic, commercially available carbon mitigation technologies are not developed and adopted in a timely manner. Federal or state laws or regulations may be adopted that would impose new or additional limits on the emissions of GHGs, including, but not limited to, CO2 from electric generating units using fossil fuels such as coal or natural gas. In order to comply with such regulations, electric generating units using fossil fuels may be required to implement certain emissions control technologies. For example, pursuant to the Power Plant NSPS finalized by the EPA in August 2015, the EPA designated partial carbon capture and sequestration as the best system of emission reduction for newly constructed fossil fuel fired steam generating units at power plants to employ to meet the standard. However, there is a risk that such technology, which may include storage, conversion, or other commercial use for captured carbon, may not be commercially practical in limiting emissions as otherwise required by the rule or similar rules that may be proposed in the future. Although in December 2018, EPA proposed to revise the Power Plant NSPS to replace its designation of carbon capture and storage as the best system of emissions reduction with less stringent standards, this proposal may be subject to change and administrative and legal challenges. If such legislative or regulatory programs are adopted or remain in place, and economic, commercially available carbon capture or other carbon mitigation technologies for power plants are not developed or adopted in a timely manner, it would negatively affect our customers and would further reduce the demand for coal as a fuel source, causing coal prices and sales of our coal to decline, perhaps materially. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service could withhold tax refunds and refundable credits and assert a right to setoff against pre petition claims of the U.S. government during the Alpha Bankruptcy, which could have a material adverse effect upon the Company assets. As of December 31, 2018, the Company has recorded approximately $68.8 million of federal income tax receivable and approximately $68.8 million of federal deferred tax asset related to refundable Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) credits. In addition, the Company has recorded a non current federal income tax receivable of approximately $438 million related to a net operating loss (NOL) carryback claim. Because the U.S. government was a creditor in the Predecessor Alpha bankruptcy proceedings, it is possible that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) could withhold some or all of the tax refund attributable to the NOL carryback claim and the AMT refundable credits and assert a right to set off the tax refund and refundable credits against the U.S. government pre petition bankruptcy claims. If the IRS were to take such actions, the Company would vigorously defend its position. However, if the Company were unsuccessful, there could be a material, adverse effect upon the Company assets. 34 Table of Contents Decreases in consumer demand for electricity and changes in general energy consumption patterns attributable to energy conservation trends could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to efforts to promote energy conservation in recent years, there is a risk that both the demand for electricity and the general energy consumption patterns of consumers worldwide will decrease. The ability of energy conservation technologies, public initiatives and government incentives to reduce electricity consumption or to support other forms of renewable energy could also lead to a reduction in the price of coal. If prices for coal are not competitive, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. Our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to us. Our operations use certain hazardous materials, and from time to time we generate limited quantities of hazardous wastes. We may be subject to claims under federal or state law for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages as well as for the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, sediments, groundwater and other natural resources. Such claims may arise out of current or former conditions at sites that we own or operate, or formerly owned or operated, and at contaminated sites owned or operated by third parties to which we sent wastes for treatment, storage or disposal. Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share. We operate and maintain a number of coal slurry impoundments. These impoundments are subject to extensive regulation. Some slurry impoundments maintained by other coal mining operations have failed, causing extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, as well as liability for related personal injuries and property damages. Some of our impoundments overlie mined out areas, which can pose a heightened risk of failure and of resulting damages. If 1 of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to substantial claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties, and potential third party claims for personal injury, property damage or other losses. In addition, we may become subject to such claims related to surface expressions of methane gas, which can result from underground coal mining activities. These and other environmental impacts that our operations may have, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could render continued operations at certain mines economically unfeasible or impractical or otherwise materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to obtain and renew permits, mine plan modifications and approvals, leases or other rights necessary for our operations, which would reduce our production, cash flows and profitability. Mining companies must obtain numerous regulatory permits that impose strict conditions on various environmental and safety matters in connection with coal mining. The permitting rules are complex and change over time, potentially in ways that may make our ability to comply with the applicable requirements more difficult or impractical or even preclude the continuation of ongoing operations or the development of future mining operations. The public, including special interest groups and individuals, have certain rights under various statutes to comment upon, submit objections to and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including bringing citizens lawsuits or administrative actions to challenge permits or mining activities. In states where we operate, applicable laws and regulations also provide that a mining permit or modification can, under certain circumstances, be delayed, refused or revoked if we or any entity that owns or controls or is under common ownership or control with us or is determined to be linked to us under OSM AVS, have unabated permit violations or have been the subject of permit or reclamation bond revocation or suspension. These regulations define certain relationships, such as owning over 50% of stock in an entity or having the authority to determine the manner in which the entity conducts mining operations, as constituting ownership and control. Certain other relationships are presumed to constitute ownership or control, including being an officer or director of an entity or owning between 10% and 50% of the mining operator. This presumption, in some cases, can be rebutted where the person or entity can demonstrate that it in fact does not or did not have authority directly or indirectly to determine the manner in which the relevant coal mining operation is conducted. Thus, past or ongoing violations of federal and state mining laws by us or by coal mining operations owned or controlled by our significant stockholders, directors or officers or by entities linked to us through OSM AVS could provide a basis to revoke existing permits and to deny the issuance of additional permits or modification or amendment of existing permits. This is known as being permit blocked. In recent years, the permitting required for coal mining has been the subject of increasingly stringent regulatory and administrative requirements and extensive litigation by environmental groups. As a result, the permitting process is costly and time consuming, required permits may not be issued or renewed in a timely fashion (or at all), and permits that are issued may be conditi1d in a manner that may restrict our ability to conduct our 35 Table of Contents mining activities efficiently. In some circumstances, regulators could seek to revoke permits previously issued. We are required under certain permits to provide data on the impact on the environment of proposed exploration for or production of coal to governmental authorities. In particular, certain of our activities require a dredge and fill permit from the COE under Section 404 of the CWA. In recent years, the Section 404 permitting process has been subject to increasingly stringent regulatory and administrative requirements and a series of court challenges, which have resulted in increased costs and delays in the permitting process. In addition, in 2015, the EPA and the COE issued a final rule, now known as the CWR under the CWA that would further expand the circumstances when a Section 404 permit is needed. The CWR is the subject of extensive ongoing litigation and administrative proceedings and its current and future impact on our operations are the subject of significant uncertainty. The rule was subsequently stayed nationwide by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit during the pendency of several lawsuits challenging the CWR in the Sixth Circuit and several federal district courts. On January 22, 2018, the Supreme Court reversed the Sixth Circuit's decision, ruling that jurisdiction over challenges to the CWR rests with the federal district courts and not with the appellate courts, which was followed by the dissolution of the stay by the Sixth Circuit. On February 6, 2018, the EPA and COE published a rule that delayed applicability of the CWR for 2 years. However, on August 16, 2018, the federal court in South Carolina enjoined the rule, effectively reinstating the CWR in Virginia and Pennsylvania (where we have operations) and in 24 other states. The injunction is being challenged on appeal. However, our West Virginia operations remain unaffected by the CWR, due to separate injunctions issued by federal courts in Georgia and North Dakota applicable to West Virginia and 23 other states. On February 28, 2017, while challenges to the CWR were pending, President Trump signed an executive order directing the EPA and the COE to review the CWR for consistency with the goals of promoting economic growth and minimizing regulatory uncertainty and to consider a new rule that reflects Justice Scalia plurality opinion in the 2006 Supreme Court decision, Rapanos v. United States , that CWA jurisdiction attaches only to navigable waters and other waters with a relatively permanent flow, such as rivers or lakes. On March 6, 2017, the EPA and the COE published a Notice of Intent to review and rescind or revise the rule and on June 29, 2018 the EPA and the COE published a supplemental notice indicating their intention to repeal the CWR and providing a variety of reasons to support such a repeal. On December 11, 2018, EPA and USACE issued a pre publication version and supporting documents for a proposed rule replacing the CWR (the proposal was formally published on February 14, 2019). In accordance with President Trump executive order, the proposed rule would define waters of the United States along the lines of Justice Scalia Rapanos opinion, which would have the effect of excluding from the definition certain wetlands and other water bodies that are covered by the definition pursuant to the CWR. The process to rescind or revise the CWR will likely be subject to extensive notice and comment and litigation. Additionally, we may rely on nationwide permits under the CWA Section 404 program for some of our operations. These nationwide permits are issued every five years, and the 2017 nationwide permit program was recently reissued in January 2017. If we are unable to use the nationwide permits and require an individual permit for certain work, that could delay operations. Many of our permits are subject to renewal from time to time, and renewed permits may contain more restrictive conditions than our existing permits. For example, many of our permits governing surface stream and groundwater discharges and impacts will be subject to new and more stringent conditions to address various new water quality requirements upon renewal over the next several years. Although we have no estimates at this time, our costs to satisfy these conditions could be substantial. Future changes or challenges to the permitting and mine plan modification and approval process could cause additional increases in the costs, time, and difficulty associated with obtaining and complying with the permits and could delay or prevent commencing or continuing exploration or production operations, and as a result, adversely affect our coal production, cash flows and profitability. Federal and state regulatory agencies have the authority to order any of our facilities to be temporarily or permanently closed under certain circumstances, which could materially adversely affect our ability to meet our customers demands. Federal and state regulatory agencies have the authority following significant health and safety incidents, such as fatalities, to order a facility to be temporarily or permanently closed. If this were to occur, we may be required to incur capital expenditures to re open the facility. In the event that these agencies order the closing of our facilities, our coal sales agreements and our take or pay contracts related to our export terminals may permit us to issue force majeure notices, which suspend our obligations to deliver coal under these contracts. However, our customers may challenge our issuances of force majeure notices. If these challenges are successful, we may have to purchase coal from third party sources, if it is available, to fulfill these obligations, incur capital expenditures to re open the facilities and or negotiate settlements with the customers, which may include price reductions, the reduction of commitments or the extension of time for delivery or terminate customers contracts. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents We have obligations under various settlement agreements with state and federal agencies in relation to the Alpha Restructuring settlement and the failure to meet these obligations could result in the termination of such settlement agreements, the revocation of permits and regulatory or enforcement actions, among other things. In connection with the Alpha Restructuring settlement, Alpha and Contura entered into a number of agreements with state and federal agencies regarding the funding, performance and bonding of reclamation and other environmental restoration obligations with respect to mine properties retained by Alpha under the Alpha Restructuring. These agreements have been amended from time to time in connection with sales by Alpha of certain of these properties. These agreements require Contura to make periodic payments to certain accounts designated to fund reclamation and other activities at various facilities and also impose bonding, reporting and other obligations. A failure by Contura to fulfill our obligations under these agreements could be considered an event of default which could result in, among other things, the cancellation of certain permits, a termination of the agreement, termination of the right to use the funds in the Restricted Cash Reclamation Account, the Water Treatment Restricted Cash Account or the Mitigation Account and the taking of any regulatory or enforcement action that an agency enforcing such default is permitted to take. We are in the process of developing systems and procedures for internal control over financial reporting. We may not complete our development or implementation of these systems and procedures in a timely manner, or our internal controls or the disclosure controls related to them may have 1 or more material weaknesses, which may adversely affect the value of our common stock. We are in the costly and challenging process of compiling the systems and processing the documentation necessary to implement and evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These activities may divert management attention from other business concerns. Further, during the development of these systems, it is possible that our financial statements could contain errors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported results, thus affecting our ability to finance our business. To design, maintain and improve the effectiveness of these controls and procedures, we must commit significant resources, may be required to hire additional staff and need to continue to provide effective management oversight, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Certain U.S. federal income tax provisions currently available with respect to coal percentage depletion and exploration and development may be eliminated by future legislation. From time to time, legislation is proposed that could result in the reduction or elimination of certain U.S. federal income tax provisions currently available to companies engaged in the exploration, development, and production of coal reserves. These proposals have included, but are not limited to (1) the elimination of current deductions, the 60 month amortization period and the 10 year amortization period for exploration and development costs relating to coal and other hard mineral fossil fuels, (2) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance with respect to coal properties and (3) the repeal of capital gains treatment of coal and lignite royalties. The passage of these or other similar proposals could increase our taxable income and negatively impact our cash flows and the value of an investment in our common stock. Changes in tax laws, particularly in the areas of non income taxes, or obligations arising from audits of royalties previously paid to government entities, could cause our financial position and profitability to deteriorate. We pay non income taxes on the coal we produce. A substantial portion of our non income taxes are levied as a percentage of gross revenues, while others are levied on a per ton basis. Further, liabilities could arise in connection with audits of royalties previously paid to government entities in connection with our former PRB operations. If such liabilities were to arise, or if non income tax rates were to increase significantly, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Federal healthcare legislation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In March 2010, the PPACA was enacted, impacting our costs of providing healthcare benefits to our eligible active and certain former employees and workers compensation benefits related to occupational disease resulting from coal workers pneumoconiosis (black lung). The PPACA has both short term and long term implications on benefit plan standards. Implementation of this legislation is expected to extend through 2022 In the short term, our healthcare costs could increase due to, among other things, an increase in the maximum age for covered dependents to receive benefits, changes to benefits for occupational disease related illnesses, the elimination of lifetime dollar limits per covered individual and restrictions on annual dollar limits per covered individual. In the long term, our healthcare costs could increase due to, among other things, an excise tax on high cost plans and the elimination of annual dollar limits per covered individual. 37 Table of Contents Beginning in 2022, the PPACA will impose a 40% excise tax on employers to the extent that the value of their healthcare plan coverage exceeds certain dollar thresholds. We anticipate that certain governmental agencies will provide additional regulations or interpretations concerning the application of this excise tax. We will continue to evaluate the impact of the PPACA, including any new regulations or interpretations, as well as efforts to limit or repeal the PPACA. Risks Relating to Our Operations Our coal mining production and delivery is subject to conditions and events beyond our control that could result in higher operating expenses and decreased production and sales. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event that is not fully insured could adversely affect our business and operating results and could result in impairments to our assets. Our coal production at our mines is subject to operating conditions and events beyond our control that could disrupt operations, affect production and the cost of mining for varying lengths of time and have a significant impact on our operating results. Adverse operating conditions and events that we have experienced in the past and or may experience in the future include changes or variations in geologic, hydrologic or other conditions, such as the thickness of the coal deposits and the amount of rock, clay or other non coal material embedded in or overlying the coal deposit; mining, processing and loading equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; limited availability or increased costs of mining, processing and loading equipment and parts and other materials from suppliers; difficulties associated with mining under or around surface obstacles; unfavorable conditions with respect to proximity to and availability, reliability and cost of transportation facilities; adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy snows, heavy rains and flooding, lightning strikes, hurricanes or earthquakes; accidental mine water discharges, coal slurry releases and failures of an impoundment or refuse area; mine safety accidents, including fires and explosions from methane and other sources; hazards or occurrences that could result in personal injury and loss of life; a shortage of skilled and unskilled labor; security breaches or terroristic acts; strikes and other labor related interruptions; delays or difficulties in, the unavailability of, or unexpected increases in the cost of acquiring, developing or permitting new acquisitions from the federal government and other new mining reserves and surface rights; competition and or conflicts with other natural resource extraction activities and production within our operating areas; the termination of material contracts by state or other governmental authorities; and fatalities, personal injuries or property damage arising from train derailments, mined material or overburden leaving permit boundaries, underground mine blowouts, impoundment failures, subsidence or other unexpected incidents. If any of these or other conditions or events occur in the future at any of our mines or affect deliveries of our coal to customers, they may increase our cost of mining, delay or halt production or sales to our customers, result in regulatory action or lead to customers initiating claims against us. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our operating results or result in impairments to our assets. In addition, our mining operations are concentrated in a small number of material mines. As a result, the effects of any of these conditions or events may be exacerbated and may have a disproportionate impact on our results of operations and assets. We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some, but not all, of these risks. Even where covered by insurance, these risks may not be fully covered and insurers may contest their obligations to make payments. Failures by insurers to make payments could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition. A decline in demand for met coal would limit our ability to sell our high quality thermal coal as higher priced met coal, which would reduce our revenues and profitability, and could affect the economic viability of some of our mines with higher operating costs. We are able to mine, process and market some of our coal reserves as either met coal or high quality thermal coal. In deciding our approach to these reserves, we assess the conditions in the met and thermal coal markets, including factors such as the current and anticipated future market prices of met coal and thermal coal, the generally higher price of met coal as compared to thermal coal, the lower volume of saleable tons that results when producing coal for sale in the met market rather 38 Table of Contents than the thermal market, the increased costs of producing met coal, the likelihood of being able to secure a longer term sales commitment for thermal coal and our contractual commitments to deliver different types of coal to our customers. A decline in demand for met coal relative to thermal coal could cause us to shift coal from the met market to the thermal market, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability. Mining in Central and Northern Appalachia is more complex and involves more regulatory constraints than mining in other areas of the U.S., which could affect our mining operations and cost structures in these areas. The geological characteristics of Northern and Central Appalachian coal reserves, such as depth of overburden and coal seam thickness, make them complex and costly to mine. As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be available or, if available, may not be able to be mined at costs comparable to those of the depleting mines. In addition, compared to mines in other areas of the country, permitting, licensing and other environmental and regulatory requirements are more costly and time consuming to satisfy. These factors could materially adversely affect the mining operations and cost structures of, and our customers ability to use coal produced by, our mines in Northern and Central Appalachia. Disruptions in transportation services and increased transportation costs could impair our ability to supply coal to our customers, reduce demand and adversely affect our business. For the year ended December 31, 2018, 54.8% of our captive coal volume was transported from our shipping points to a vessel loading point or customer location by rail. Deterioration in the reliability of the service provided by rail carriers would result in increased internal coal handling costs and decreased shipping volumes, and if we are unable to find alternatives our business could be adversely affected. Some of our operations are serviced by a single rail carrier. Due to the difficulty in arranging alternative transportation, these operations are particularly at risk to disruptions, capacity issues or other difficulties with that carrier transportation services, which could adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. We also depend upon trucks, beltlines, ocean vessels and barges to deliver coal to our customers. In addition, much of our eastern coal is transported from our mines to our loading facilities by trucks owned and operated by third parties. Disruption of any of these transportation services due to weather related problems, mechanical difficulties, fuel and supply costs, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks, terrorist attacks and other events could impair our ability to supply coal to our customers, resulting in decreased shipments and revenue. Disruption in shipment levels over longer periods of time could cause our customers to look to other sources for their coal needs, negatively affecting our revenues and results of operations. An increase in transportation costs could have an adverse effect on our ability to increase or to maintain production on a profit making basis and could therefore adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Because transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for our customers, increases in transportation costs could also reduce overall demand for coal or make our coal production less competitive than coal produced from other sources or other regions. Certain provisions in our coal supply agreements may result in economic penalties upon our failure to meet specifications. Most of our coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as BTU, sulfur content, ash content, grindability, moisture and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. Further, some of our coal supply agreements allow our customers to terminate the contract in the event of regulatory changes that restrict the type of coal the customer may use at its facilities or the use of that coal or increase the price of coal or the cost of using coal beyond specified limits. In addition, our coal supply agreements typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or the customer during specified events beyond the control of the affected party. As a result of these issues, we may not achieve the revenue or profit we expect to achieve from our coal supply agreements. Expenditures for certain employee benefits could be materially higher than we have anticipated, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. We are responsible for certain liabilities under a variety of benefit plans and other arrangements with employees. The unfunded status of these obligations as of December 31, 2018 included $1820 million of workers compensation obligations, $180.8 million of pension obligations, and $922 million of black lung obligations. These obligations have been estimated based on assumptions including actuarial estimates, discount rates, and changes in health care costs. We could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. In addition, future regulatory and accounting changes relating to these benefits could result in increased obligations or additional costs, which could also have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 39 Table of Contents Several states in which we operate consider changes in workers compensation laws from time to time, which, if enacted, could adversely affect us. We require a skilled workforce to run our business. If we cannot hire qualified persons to meet replacement or expansion needs, we may not be able to achieve planned results. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled laborers with mining experience and proficiency as well as qualified managers and supervisors. The demand for skilled employees sometimes causes a significant constriction of the labor supply resulting in higher labor costs. We, along with the mining industry generally, are currently facing a shortage of experienced mechanics and certified electricians. When coal producers compete for skilled miners, recruiting challenges can occur and employee turnover rates can increase, which negatively affect operating efficiency and costs. If a shortage of skilled workers exists and we are unable to train or retain the necessary number of miners, it could adversely affect our productivity, costs and ability to expand production. If the assumptions underlying our accruals for reclamation and mine closure obligations prove to be inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. SMCRA establishes operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as deep mining. We accrue for the costs of current mine disturbance and final mine closure, including the cost of treating mine water discharge where necessary. Our estimated total reclamation and mine closing liabilities were $228.4 million as of December 31, 2018, based upon permit requirements and the historical experience at our operations, and depend on a number of variables involving assumptions and estimation and therefore may be subject to change, including the estimated future asset retirement costs and the timing of such costs, estimated proven reserves, assumptions involving profit margins of third party contractors, inflation rates and discount rates. Furthermore, these obligations are primarily unfunded. If these accruals are insufficient or our liability in a particular year is greater than currently anticipated, our future operating results and financial position could be adversely affected. In addition, significant changes from period to period could result in significant variability in our operating results, which could reduce comparability between periods and impact our liquidity. See Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for a description of our estimated costs of these liabilities. Estimates of our economically recoverable coal reserves involve uncertainties, and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs, decreased profitability and asset impairments. We base our estimates of our economically recoverable coal reserves on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff, including various engineers and geologists, and periodically reviewed by outside firms. Our estimates as to the quantity and quality of the coal in our reserves are updated annually to reflect production of coal from the reserves and new drilling, engineering or other data. These estimates depend upon a variety of factors and assumptions, many of which involve uncertainties and factors beyond our control and may vary considerably from actual results, such as geological and mining conditions that may not be fully identified by available exploration data or that may differ from experience in current operations; historical production from the area compared with production from other similar producing areas; the assumed effects of regulation and taxes by governmental agencies; and assumptions about coal prices, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities and qualities attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of net cash flows expected from particular reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. In addition, actual coal tonnage recovered from identified reserve areas or properties and revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves may vary materially from estimates. Accordingly, our estimates may not accurately reflect our actual reserves. Any inaccuracy in our reserve estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs, decreased profitability and asset impairments. Our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to timely develop or acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. Our profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine in a cost effective manner coal reserves of the quality our customers need. Although we have coal reserves that we believe could support current production levels for more than 35 years, we have not yet developed the mines for all our reserves. We may not be able to mine all of our reserves as profitably as 40 Table of Contents we do at our current operations. Under adverse market conditions, some reserves could not be mined profitably at all. In addition, in order to develop our reserves, we must receive various governmental permits. As discussed above, some of these permits are becoming increasingly more difficult and expensive to obtain and the review process continues to lengthen. We may be unable to obtain the necessary permits on terms that would permit us to operate profitably or at all. Because our reserves are depleted as we mine our coal, our future success and growth depend in part on our ability to timely acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. Our planned development projects and acquisition activities may not result in significant additional reserves, and we may not succeed in developing new mines or expanding existing mines beyond our existing reserves. Replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be able to be mined at costs comparable to those of the depleting mines. We may not be able to accurately assess the geological characteristics of any reserves that we now own or subsequently acquire, which may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Exhaustion of reserves at particular mines also may have an adverse effect on our operating results due to lost production capacity from diminished or discontinued operations at those mines, as well as lay offs, write off charges and other costs, potentially causing an adverse effect that is disproportionate to the percentage of overall production represented by those mines. Our ability to acquire other reserves in the future could be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties or the lack of suitable acquisition candidates available on commercially reasonable terms, among other factors. If we are unable to replace or increase our coal reserves on acceptable terms, our production and revenues will decline as our reserves are depleted. If we are unable to acquire surface rights to access our coal reserves, we may be unable to obtain a permit to mine coal we own and may be required to employ expensive techniques to mine around those sections of land we cannot access in order to access other sections of coal reserves, which could materially and adversely affect our business and our results of operations. After we acquire coal reserves, we are required to obtain a permit to mine the reserves through the applicable state agencies prior to mining the acquired coal. In part, permitting requirements provide that, under certain circumstances, we must obtain surface owner consent if the surface estate has been severed from the mineral estate, which is commonly known as a severed estate. At certain of our mines where we have obtained the underlying coal and the surface is held by 1 or more owners, we are engaged in negotiations for surface rights with multiple parties. If we are unable to successfully negotiate surface rights with any or all of these surface owners, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may be denied a permit to mine some or all of our coal or may find that we cannot mine the coal at a profit. If we are denied a permit, this would create significant delays in our mining operations and materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. Furthermore, if we decide to alter our plans to mine around the affected areas, we could incur significant additional costs to do so, which could increase our operating expenses considerably and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to complete permit transfers as expected or if there are complications in connection with the permit transfer process, it could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. On December 8, 2017, Contura closed a transaction ( PRB Transaction ) with Blackjewel to sell the Eagle Butte and Belle Ayr mines located in the PRB, including applicable permits. Alpha similarly sold properties for which the permits are in the process of being transferred. During the permit transfer period we must maintain the required reclamation bonds and related collateral, which are off balance sheet arrangements. A local citizens organization filed objections to the permit transfer with the Wyoming Environmental Quality Council in November, 2018. The objections are scheduled to be heard in May, 2019. The Company believes that the objections are without merit. If the permit transfer process is not completed as expected, however, or if there are complications in connection with the process, we will remain obligated to maintain these bonds and collateral, which could materially and adversely affect our business and our results of operations. Our work force could become increasingly unionized in the future and our unionized or union free work force could strike, which could adversely affect the stability of our production and reduce our profitability. Approximately 84% of our total workforce and approximately 78% of our hourly workforce was union free as of December 31, 2018. However, under the National Labor Relations Act, employees have the right at any time to form or affiliate with a union. Any further unionization of our employees or the employees of third party contractors who mine coal for us could adversely affect the stability of our production and reduce our profitability. Certain of Contura subsidiaries have wage agreements with the UMWA that are subject to termination by either the employer or the UMWA, without cause, on July 31, 2020. 41 Table of Contents As is the case with our union free operations, the union represented employees could strike, which would disrupt our production, increase our costs and disrupt shipments of coal to our customers, and could result in the closure of affected mines, all of which could reduce our profitability. Conflicts with competing holders of mineral rights and rights to use adjacent, overlying or underlying lands could materially and adversely affect our ability to mine coal or do so on a cost effective basis. Our operations at times face potential conflicts with holders of other mineral interests such as coalbed methane, natural gas and oil reserves. Some of these minerals are located on, or are adjacent to, some of our coal reserves and active operations, potentially creating conflicting interests between us and the holders of those interests. From time to time we acquire these minerals ourselves to prevent conflicting interests from arising. If, however, conflicting interests arise and we do not acquire the competing mineral rights, we may be required to negotiate our ability to mine with the holder of the competing mineral rights. Furthermore, the rights of third parties for competing uses of adjacent, overlying or underlying lands, such as oil and gas activity, coalbed methane, pipelines, roads, easements and public facilities, may affect our ability to operate as planned if our title is not superior or arrangements cannot be negotiated. If we are unable to reach an agreement with these holders of such rights, or to do so on a cost effective basis, we may incur increased costs and our ability to mine could be impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Provisions in our lease agreements, defects in title in our mine properties or loss of leasehold rights could limit our ability to recover coal from our properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. We conduct a significant part of our mining operations on properties that we lease. Title to most of our leased properties and mineral rights is not thoroughly verified until a permit to mine the property is obtained, and in some cases, title is not verified at all. Accordingly, actual or alleged defects in title or boundaries may exist, which may result in the loss of our right to mine on the property or in unanticipated costs to obtain leases or mining contracts to allow us to conduct our mining operations on the property, which could adversely affect our business and profitability. Furthermore, some leases require us to produce a minimum quantity of coal and or pay minimum production royalties. If those requirements are not met, the leasehold interest may terminate. Decreased availability or increased costs of key equipment and materials, including certain Item mandated by regulations, or of coal that we purchase from third parties, could impact our cost of production and decrease our profitability. We depend on reliable supplies of mining equipment, replacement parts and materials such as explosives, diesel fuel, tires, steel, magnetite and other raw materials and consumables which, in some cases, do not have ready substitutes. Some equipment and materials are needed to comply with regulations, such as proximity detection devices on continuous mining machines. The supplier base providing mining materials and equipment has been relatively consistent in recent years, although there continues to be consolidation, which has resulted in a limited number of suppliers for certain types of equipment and supplies. Any significant reduction in availability or increase in cost of any mining equipment or key supplies could adversely affect our operations and increase our costs, which could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. In addition, the prices we pay for these materials are strongly influenced by the global commodities markets. Coal mines consume large quantities of commodities such as steel, copper, rubber products, explosives and diesel and other liquid fuels. If the value of the U.S. dollar declines relative to foreign currencies with respect to certain imported supplies or other products, our operating expenses will increase, which could materially adversely impact our profitability. Some materials, such as steel, are needed to comply with regulatory requirements. Furthermore, operating expenses at our mining locations are sensitive to changes in certain variable costs, including diesel fuel prices, which is 1 of our largest variable costs. Our results depend on our ability to adequately control our costs. Any increase in the price we pay for diesel fuel will have a negative impact on our results of operations. A rapid or significant increase in the cost of these commodities could increase our mining costs because we have limited ability to negotiate lower prices. We purchase coal from third parties, for use in coal blending and for other purposes, for which ready substitutes may not be immediately available. A significant reduction in availability or increase in cost of these supplies, or the failure of third party coal producers to provide them in a timely fashion, could adversely affect our operations and increase our costs, which could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. 42 Table of Contents Some of our mines are operated by third party contract mine operators, and our results of operations could be adversely affected if these operators fail to operate the mines effectively. Some of our mines are operated by third party contract mine operators. While we have certain contractual rights of oversight over these mines, which are operated under our permits, we do not control, and our employees do not participate in, the day to day operations of these mines. Operational difficulties at these mines, increased competition for contract miners from other coal producers and other factors beyond our control could affect the availability, cost and quality of coal produced for us by contractors. Disruption in our supply of contractor produced coal could impair our ability to fill our customers orders or require us to pay higher prices to obtain the required coal from other sources. Any increase in the per ton compensation for services we pay for the production of contractor produced coal could increase our costs and therefore lower our earnings and adversely affect our results of operations. Strategic transactions, including acquisitions, involve a number of risks, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the future, we may undertake strategic transactions such as the acquisition or disposition of coal mining and related infrastructure assets, interests in coal mining companies, joint ventures or other strategic transactions involving companies with coal mining or other energy assets. Our ability to complete these transactions is subject to the availability of attractive opportunities, including potential acquisition targets that can be successfully integrated into our existing business and provide us with complementary capabilities, products or services on terms acceptable to us, as well as general market conditions, among other things. Risks inherent in these strategic transactions include uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent liabilities and other liabilities of acquisition candidates and strategic partners; the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business; the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies from an acquisition or other strategic transactions in the amounts and on the time frame due to inaccurate assumptions underlying estimates of expected cost savings, the deterioration of general industry and business conditions, unanticipated legal, insurance and financial compliance costs, or other factors; the ability of management to manage successfully our exposure to pending and potential litigation and regulatory obligations; unanticipated increases in competition that limit our ability to expand our business or capitalize on expected business opportunities, including retaining current customers; and unanticipated changes in business, industry, market, or general economic conditions that differ from the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the acquisition or other strategic transactions. The ultimate success of any strategic transaction we may undertake will depend in part on our ability to continue to realize the anticipated synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from those transactions. We may not be able to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties that we acquire, invest in or partner with. Problems that could arise from the integration of an acquired business may involve coordinating management and personnel and managing different corporate cultures; applying our safety and environmental programs at acquired mines and facilities; establishing, testing and maintaining effective internal control processes and systems of financial reporting for the acquired business; the diversion of our management and our finance and accounting staff resources and time commitments, and the disruption of either our or the acquired company ongoing businesses; tax costs or inefficiencies; and inconsistencies in standards, information technology systems, procedures or policies. Any 1 or more of these factors could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated from a strategic transaction, adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, employees or other third parties or reduce our earnings. Moreover, any strategic transaction we pursue could materially affect our liquidity and capital resources and may require us to incur indebtedness, seek equity capital or do both. Future transactions could also result in our assuming more long term liabilities relative to the value of the acquired assets. Further, acquisition accounting rules require changes in certain assumptions made subsequent to the measurement period, as defined in current accounting standards, to be recorded in current period earnings, which could affect our results of operations. 43 Table of Contents We may be unable to generate sufficient taxable income from future operations, or other circumstances could arise, which may limit our ability to utilize our tax net operating loss carryforwards or maintain our deferred tax assets. We acquired the core coal assets of Predecessor Alpha as part of Predecessor Alpha bankruptcy restructuring in transactions intended to be treated as a tax free reorganization for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result of these transactions, we inherited the tax basis of the core assets and the net operating loss and other carryforwards of Predecessor Alpha. These carryforwards and tax basis were subject to reduction on December 31, 2016 due to the cancellation of indebtedness resulting from Predecessor Alpha bankruptcy restructuring. Due to the change in ownership, the net operating loss and other carryforwards will be subjected to limitations on their use in future years. In addition, we do not have a long history of operating results, and if we are unable to generate profits in the future, we may be unable to utilize these carryforwards. As of December 31, 2018, a valuation allowance of $94.8 million has been provided on federal and state net operating loss carryforwards and gross deferred tax assets not expected to provide future tax benefits. Negative or unexpected consequences of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could affect our business. On December 22, 2017, legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the TCJA ) significantly revised U.S. federal corporate tax law by, among other things, reducing the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate to 21%, eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax, providing a mechanism for corporations to m1tize alternative minimum tax credits ( AMT Credits ) during the 2018 to 2021 tax years, limiting the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings, allowing immediate expensing for certain new investments, and, effective for net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, eliminating net operating loss carrybacks, permitting indefinite net operating loss carryforwards, and limiting the use of net operating loss carryforwards to 80% of current year taxable income. There are a number of uncertainties and ambiguities as to the interpretation and application of many of the provisions in the TCJA. In the absence of guidance of these issues, we will use what we believe are reasonable interpretations and assumptions in interpreting and applying the TCJA for purposes of determining our cash tax liabilities and results of operations, which may change as we receive additional clarification and implementation guidance and as the interpretation of the TCJA evolves over time. It is possible that the IRS could issue subsequent guidance or take positions on audit that differ from the interpretations and assumptions that we previously made, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash tax liabilities, results of operations and financial condition. Our business requires substantial capital investment and maintenance expenditures, which we may be unable to provide. Our business plan and strategy require substantial capital expenditures. We require capital for, among other purposes, acquisition of surface rights, equipment and the development of our mining operations, capital renovations, maintenance and expansions of plants and equipment and compliance with safety, health and environmental laws and regulations. Future debt or equity financing may not be available or, if available, may result in dilution or not be available on satisfactory terms. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may not be able to maintain or increase our existing production rates and we could be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures or change our business strategy, sell assets or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments and other assets or liabilities that are marked to market could cause volatility in our earnings. Pursuant to the Second Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization of Debtors and Debtors in Possession, dated May 27, 2016, as modified and confirmed by the Order Confirming Second Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization of Debtors and Debtors in Possession, as Modified (Docket No. 3038), entered by the Bankruptcy Court on July 12, 2016, we have contingent revenue payment obligations to certain of Alpha creditors, which are recorded at fair market value and marked to market in each reporting period, with changes in value reflected in earnings. Any change in fair value can have a significant impact on our earnings from period to period, including in the future. Cybersecurity attacks, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and other similar crises or disruptions may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, or those of our customers and suppliers. Our business, or the businesses of our customers and suppliers, may be impacted by disruptions such as cybersecurity attacks or failures, threats to physical security, and extreme weather conditions or other natural disasters. Strategic targets, such as energy related assets, may be at greater risk of future terrorist or cybersecurity attacks than other targets in the U.S. These disruptions or any significant increases in energy prices that follow could result in government imposed price controls. Our insurance may not protect us against such occurrences. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, as cybersecurity 44 Table of Contents attacks continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cybersecurity attacks. Risks Relating to Our Liquidity Our indebtedness exposes us to various risks. At December 31, 2018, we had $6328 million of indebtedness outstanding before discounts and issuance costs applied for financial reporting, of which $149.0 million will mature in the next 3 years. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to our business. For example, it could make it more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts as they become due during adverse economic and industry conditions because any related decrease in revenues could cause us to not have sufficient cash flows from operations to make our scheduled debt payments; force us to seek additional capital, restructure or refinance our debts, or sell assets; cause us to be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities such as acquisition opportunities and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; cause us to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service, reducing the availability of working capital and delaying or preventing investments, capital expenditures, research and development and other business activities; cause us to be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; expose us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; expose us to the risk of foreclosure on substantially all of our assets and those of most of our subsidiaries, which secure certain of our indebtedness if we default on payment or are unable to comply with covenants or restrictions in any of the agreements; limit our ability to borrow additional monies in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; and result in a downgrade in the credit ratings of our indebtedness, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness and result in more restrictive borrowing terms, including increased borrowing costs and more restrictive covenants, all of which could affect our internal cost of capital estimates and therefore impact operational and investment decisions. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future cash flow from operations and our ability to restructure or refinance our debt, which will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at that time. We may incur additional secured or unsecured indebtedness in the future, subject to compliance with covenants in our existing debt agreements. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more 1rous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, and the terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. The terms of our credit facility impose operating and financial restrictions on us, which may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. In connection with the consummation of the Alpha Merger, we incurred indebtedness of approximately $550 million under a term loan facility to refinance existing indebtedness and to pay related fees and expenses, and borrowing capacity of $225 million under a revolving credit facility. Additionally, as a result of the Alpha Merger, we assumed a letter of credit agreement and a credit and security agreement which, among other things, include letter of credit facilities that provide for the issuance of letters of credit. The terms of our credit facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on us, which may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. The term loan facility matures on November 9, 2025 and the revolving credit facility matures on April 3, 2022 The term loan facility permits us, subject to approval of the administrative agent and the lenders providing the financing, to request incremental term loans up to an aggregate amount of $150 million plus additional amounts subject to a First Lien Leverage Ratio test and other specified conditions, in increments not less than $25 million or the remaining availability. The revolving loan facility permits us, subject to approval of the administrative agent and the lenders providing the financing, to request incremental revolving commitment increases up to an aggregate amount of $50 million, in increments not less than $10 million or the remaining availability and subject to specified conditions. We are subject to various operating and financial covenants under the term loan and revolving credit facilities which restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make particular types of investments, incur certain 45 Table of Contents types of liens, engage in fundamental corporate changes, enter into transactions with affiliates, make substantial asset sales, make certain restricted payments, enter into amendments or waivers to certain agreements, conduct certain sale leasebacks or enter into certain burdensome agreements. Any failure to comply with these covenants may constitute a breach under the term loan and revolving credit facilities which could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of any outstanding indebtedness and termination of revolving credit commitments under the term loan and revolving credit facilities. Our inability to maintain our term loan and revolving credit facilities could materially adversely affect our liquidity and our business. At December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with the operating and financial covenants under the term loan and revolving credit facilities. Pressure on our business, cash flow and liquidity could materially and adversely affect our ability to fund our business operations or react to and withstand changing market and industry conditions. Additional sources of funds may not be available. A significant source of liquidity is our cash balance. Access to additional funds from liquidity generating transactions or other sources of external financing may not be available to us and, if available, would be subject to market conditions and certain limitations including our credit rating and covenant restrictions in our credit facility. Our ability to make the required payments on our indebtedness depends on the cash flow generated by our subsidiaries, which may be constrained by legal, contractual, market or operating conditions from paying dividends to us. We will depend to a significant extent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make that cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. These subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each of these subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. Failure to obtain or renew surety bonds on acceptable terms could affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations, which could adversely affect our ability to mine or lease coal. Federal and state laws require us to obtain surety bonds to secure payment of certain long term obligations such as mine closure or reclamation costs, federal and state workers compensation costs (including related to black lung), coal leases and other obligations. These bonds are typically renewable annually. Under applicable regulations, self bonding may not be available to us as a means to comply with our reclamation bonding obligations for the foreseeable future. Surety bond issuers and holders may not continue to renew the bonds, may demand less favorable terms upon renewal or may impose new or increased collateral requirements. As of December 31, 2018, we had outstanding surety bonds with third parties of approximately $5814 million. Surety bond issuers and holders may demand additional collateral, unfavorable terms or higher fees. Our failure to retain, or inability to acquire, surety bonds or to provide a suitable alternative could adversely affect our ability to mine or lease coal, which would materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. That failure could result from a variety of factors, including lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms, the exercise by third party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the surety bonds, restrictions on availability of collateral for current and future third party surety bond issuers under the terms of any credit arrangements then in place, or our inability to comply with our reclamation bonding obligations through self bonding. In addition, as a result of increasing credit pressures on the coal industry, it is possible that surety bond providers could demand cash collateral as a condition to providing or maintaining surety bonds. Any such demands, depending on the amount of any cash collateral required, could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and financial position. If we are unable to meet cash collateral requirements and cannot otherwise obtain or retain required surety bonds, we may be unable to satisfy legal requirements necessary to conduct our mining operations. Difficulty in acquiring surety bonds, or additional collateral requirements, would increase our costs and likely require greater use of alternative sources of funding for this purpose, which would reduce our liquidity. If we are unable to provide the financial assurance that is required by state and federal law to secure our reclamation and coal lease obligations, our ability to mine or lease coal and, as a result, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The terms of our borrowing arrangements limit our and our subsidiaries ability to take certain actions, which may limit our operating and financial flexibility and adversely affect our business. Our borrowing arrangements contain, and any future borrowing arrangements are also likely to contain, a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability and our subsidiaries ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, pay dividends, make redemptions and repurchases of certain capital 46 Table of Contents stock, make loans and investments, create liens, sell certain assets, engage in transactions with affiliates, and merge or consolidate with other companies or sell substantially all of our assets. These covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to execute preferred business strategies. In addition, complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies who are not subject to such restrictions. We regularly evaluate opportunities to enhance our capital structure and financial flexibility through a variety of methods, including repayment or repurchase of outstanding debt, amendment of our credit facility and other facilities, and other methods. As a result of any of these actions, the restrictions and covenants that apply to us may become more restrictive or otherwise change. Operating results below current levels, or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with our covenants and payment obligations contained in our borrowing arrangements. If we violate these covenants or obligations under any of these agreements and are unable to obtain waivers from our lenders, our debt under all of these agreements would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we were able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The need to maintain capacity for required letters of credit could limit our ability to provide financial assurance for self insured obligations and negatively impact our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditure or other general corporate requirements. On November 9, 2018, the Company entered into the Amended and Restated Asset Based Revolving Credit Agreement. Additionally, as a result of the Alpha Merger, the Company assumed an Amended and Restated Letter of Credit Agreement and a Credit and Security Agreement. Each of these agreements includes, among other things, provisions that provide for the issuance of letters of credit. Obligations secured by letters of credit may increase in the future. If we do not maintain sufficient borrowing capacity under our letter of credit facilities, we may be unable to provide financial assurance for self insured obligations and could negatively impact our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditure or other general corporate requirements. Risks Relating to the Ownership of Our Common Stock The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), and the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost effective manner. As a public company, we will need to comply with new laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, related regulations of the SEC and the requirements of the NYSE, with which we are not currently required to comply as a private company. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements will occupy a significant amount of time for our board of directors and management and will significantly increase our costs and expenses. We will need to institute a more comprehensive compliance function; comply with rules promulgated by the NYSE; prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws; establish new internal policies; and retain and involve to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities. Our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed. Compliance with these requirements may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost effective manner. In addition, we expect that being a public company subject to these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. 47 Table of Contents An active, liquid and orderly trading market for our common stock may not be maintained, and our stock price may be volatile. Contura common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol CTRA . Active, liquid and orderly trading markets usually result in less price volatility and more efficiency in carrying out investors purchase and sale orders. An active, liquid and orderly trading market for our common stock may not be maintained, however. The market price of our common stock could vary significantly as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. In the event of a drop in the market price of our common stock, you could lose a substantial part or all of your investment in our common stock. The following factors, among others, could affect our stock price our operating and financial performance, including reserve estimates; an unexpected mine or environmental incident; quarterly variations in the rate of growth of our financial indicators, such as net income per share, net income and revenues; the public reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; strategic actions by our competitors; changes in revenue or earnings estimates, or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage, by equity research analysts; speculation in the press or investment community; research analysts coverage of our common stock, or their failure to cover our common stock; sales of our common stock by us, our directors or officers or the selling stockholders or the perception that such sales may occur; our payment of dividends; changes in accounting principles, policies, guidance, interpretations or standards; additions or departures of key management personnel; actions by our stockholders; general market conditions, including fluctuations in commodity prices; public sentiment regarding climate change and fossil fuels; domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; and the realization of any risks described under this Risk Factors section or described elsewhere in this document. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company securities. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management attention and resources and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Future sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could reduce our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute your ownership in us. We may issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities in subsequent public offerings. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock or the dividend amount payable per share on our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock or the dividend amount payable per share on our common stock. In addition, the issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of outstanding options will result in dilution to the interests of other stockholders. In addition, the issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants will result in dilution to the interests of other stockholders. We may issue preferred stock with terms that could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, 1 or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of 1 or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the 48 Table of Contents happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. Securities and industry analysts currently publish these research reports, but there is no guarantee they will continue to publish them in the future. If securities or industry analysts initiate coverage and 1 or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if 1 or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline. Provisions in our organizational documents and the instruments governing our debt may discourage a takeover attempt even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions contained in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation (the amended and restated certificate of incorporation ) and second amended and restated bylaws (the amended and restated bylaws ) could impose impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire us even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. Thus, our board of directors can authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company and could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. A change of control (as defined under the instruments governing our debt) is an event of default, permitting our lenders to accelerate the maturity of certain borrowings. Further, our borrowing arrangements impose other restrictions on us, including with respect to mergers or consolidations with other companies and the sale of substantially all of our assets. These provisions could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended and restated bylaws provide, subject to certain exceptions, that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for certain stockholder litigation matters, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or stockholders. Our amended and restated bylaws provide, subject to limited exceptions, that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim against us, any director or our officers or employees arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (including any certificate of designations relating to any class or series of preferred stock) or our amended and restated bylaws; or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us, any director or our officers or employees that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of our amended and restated bylaws described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or any of our directors, officers, other employees or stockholders which may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision that is contained in our amended and restated bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments N1 Item 2 Item 2 Properties
