CIK: 1710366
Company Name: CONSOL ENERGY INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-02-08
Accession Number: 0001710366-19-000005


ITEM 1 Business General All dollar amounts discussed in this section are in millions of U.S. dollars, except for per unit amounts, and unless otherwise indicated. The Company was incorporated in Delaware on June 21, 2017 and became an independent, publicly traded company on November 28, 2017 when our former parent split into 2 independently traded public companies, a natural gas company known as CNX Resources Corporation, and CONSOL Energy Inc. We and our predecessors have been mining coal, primarily in the Appalachian Basin, since 1864. As part of the separation, our former parent transferred to the Company substantially all of its coal related assets, including its Pennsylvania Mining Complex, all of its interest in CONSOL Coal Resources LP, the CONSOL Marine Terminal and approximately 16 billion tons of Greenfield Reserves located in the Northern Appalachian Basin ( NAPP ), the Central Appalachian Basin ( CAPP ) and the Illinois Basin ( ILB ). The address of our principal executive offices is 1000 CONSOL Energy Drive, Suite 100, Canonsburg, Pennsylvania 15317. We maintain a website at http www.consolenergy.com and the information contained in or connected to the website will not be deemed to be incorporated in this document, and you should not rely on any such information in making an investment decision. Our Company We are a leading, low cost producer of high quality bituminous coal, focused on the extraction and preparation of coal in the Appalachian Basin due to our ability to efficiently produce and deliver large volumes of high quality coal at competitive prices, the strategic location of our mines and the industry experience of our management team. Our predecessors have been mining coal, primarily in the Appalachian Basin, since 1864. Coal from the PAMC is valued because of its high energy content (as measured in Btu per pound), relatively low levels of sulfur and other impurities, and strong thermoplastic properties that enable it to be used in metallurgical as well as thermal applications. We take advantage of these desirable quality characteristics and our extensive logistical ne2rk, which is directly served by both the Norfolk Southern and CSX railroads, to aggressively market our product to a broad base of strategically selected, top performing power plant customers in the eastern United States. We also capitalize on the operational synergies afforded by the CONSOL Marine Terminal to export our coal to thermal and metallurgical end users in Europe, Asia, South America, and Africa, as well as Canada. Our operations, including the PAMC and the CONSOL Marine Terminal, have consistently generated strong cash flows. As of December 31, 2018, the PAMC controls 698.5 million tons of high quality Pittsburgh seam reserves, enough to allow for approximately 25 years of full capacity production. In addition, we own or control approximately 16 billion tons of Greenfield Reserves located in the NAPP, the CAPP and the ILB, which we believe could provide a solid growth platform in the future. Our vision is to maximize cash flow generation through the safe, compliant and efficient operation of this core asset base, while strategically reducing debt, returning capital through share buybacks or dividends, and, when prudent, allocating capital toward compelling growth opportunities. Our core businesses consist of our Pennsylvania Mining Complex The PAMC, which includes the Bailey Mine, the Enlow Fork Mine, the Harvey Mine and the Central Preparation Plant, has extensive high quality coal reserves. We mine our reserves from the Pittsburgh No. 8 Coal Seam, which is a large contiguous formation of uniform, high Btu coal that is ideal for high productivity, low cost longwall operations. The design of the PAMC is optimized to produce large quantities of coal on a cost efficient basis. We are able to sustain high production volumes at comparatively low operating costs due to, among other things, our technologically advanced longwall mining systems, logistics infrastructure and safety. All of our mines utilize longwall mining, which is a highly automated underground mining technique that produces large volumes of coal at lower costs compared to other underground mining methods. We own a 75% undivided interest in PAMC, with the remaining 25% being owned by CCR, as discussed below. CCR Ownership CONSOL Energy owns, directly or indirectly, through CCR's general partner, 617% of the partnership, which is comprised of a 17% general partner interest and 60.0% limited partner interest. At December 31, 2018, CCR assets included a 25% undivided interest in, and full operational control over, the PAMC. 8 CONSOL Marine Terminal Through our subsidiary CONSOL Marine Terminals LLC we provide coal export terminal services through the Port of Baltimore. The terminal can either store coal or load coal directly into vessels from rail cars. It is also 1 of the few terminals in the United States served by 2 railroads, Norfolk Southern Corporation and CSX Transportation Inc. Greenfield Reserves Ownership of approximately 16 billion tons of high quality, undeveloped coal reserves located in NAPP, CAPP and the ILB. A map showing the location of our significant properties is below The Company's mission is to improve lives and communities by safely and compliantly producing affordable, reliable energy and profitably growing through innovative technology and perseverance. Our core values of safety, compliance, and continuous improvement are the foundation of the Company identity and are the basis for how management defines continued success. We believe the Company rich resource base, coupled with these core values, allows management to create value for the long term. We believe that the use of coal as a principal fuel source for electricity in the United States will continue for many years. Additionally, we believe that as worldwide economies grow, the demand for electricity from fossil fuels will grow as well, resulting in expansion of worldwide demand for our coal. Other information regarding the Company, including revenues, a measurement of profit or loss, total assets and financial information about geographic areas, is provided in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 9 Our Relationship with CONSOL Coal Resources LP In July 2015, CONSOL Coal Resources LP, formerly known as CNX Coal Resources LP, closed its initial public offering ( IPO ) of 5,000,000 common units representing limited partnership interests at a price to the public of $15.00 per unit. The underwriters in the CCR initial public offering exercised an over allotment option to purchase and resell an additional 561,067 common units to the public at $15.00 per unit. In conjunction with the IPO, CCR sold an additional 5,000,000 common units representing limited partnership interests in a private placement. CCR general partner is CONSOL Coal Resources GP LLC, formerly known as CNX Coal Resources GP LLC, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The initial assets of CCR were comprised of a 20% undivided interest in PAMC. CCR is managed and operated by the board of directors and executive officers of its general partner, CONSOL Coal Resources GP LLC, many of whom are also executive officers of the Company. The General Partner is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and the Company has the right to appoint the entire board of directors of the General Partner, including its independent directors. CCR unitholders are not entitled to elect the directors of the General Partner nor can they directly or indirectly participate in the management of CCR. The executive officers of the General Partner are compensated by us or certain of our affiliates. Under our omnibus agreement with CCR, CCR reimburses us for compensation related expenses (including salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts) attributable to the portion of an executive compensation that is allocable to that executive service for the General Partner. In September 2016, CCR and its wholly owned subsidiary, CONSOL Thermal Holdings LLC ( CONSOL Thermal ), formerly known as CNX Thermal Holdings LLC, entered into a Contribution Agreement with our former parent, CONSOL Pennsylvania Coal Company LLC and Conrhein Coal Company under which CONSOL Thermal acquired an additional 5% undivided interest in and to the Pennsylvania Mining Complex, in exchange for (i) cash consideration in the amount of $215 million and (ii) CCR issuance of 3,956,496 Class A Preferred Units representing limited partnership interests in CCR at an issue price of $17.01 per Class A Preferred Unit, or an aggregate $67.3 million in equity consideration. On October 2, 2017, our former parent provided a conversion notice to CCR with respect to all Class A Preferred Units owned by it, and thereafter caused all such Class A Preferred Units to convert, on a 1 to 1 ratio, into common units representing limited partnership interests in CCR. In connection with the separation, our former parent transferred all of its ownership interest in CCR to the Company, which consisted of (i) 5,006,496 common units and 11,611,067 subordinated units (representing a ~60% limited partnership interest), and (ii) 17% general partner interest and all incentive distribution rights ( IDRs ). Subordinated units are not entitled to any distribution from CCR unless CCR makes a minimum quarterly distribution of $0.5125 per common unit. CCR made minimum distributions per subordinated unit equal to the distribution per common unit for thirteen of the fourteen quarters since CCR IPO; CCR did not meet the requirement for a subordinated unit distribution with respect to fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2016. IDRs entitle the holder to receive increasing percentages, up to a maximum of 48%, of the available cash CCR distributes from operating surplus in excess of $0.5894 per unit per quarter. The maximum distribution of 48% does not include any distributions that the General Partner or its affiliates may receive on common units, subordinated units, or the General Partner interest that they own. Our Strategy Our strategy is to increase stockholder value by safely and compliantly operating our business, developing and growing our existing coal assets and participating in global coal markets. The Company coal assets align with our long term strategic objectives. Our current production, which includes production from the Bailey, Enlow Fork and Harvey mines, can be sold domestically or abroad, as either thermal coal or high volatile metallurgical coal. These low cost mines, with five longwalls, produce a high Btu Pittsburgh seam coal that is lower in sulfur than many Northern Appalachian coals. Our onsite logistics infrastructure at the Central Preparation Plant includes a dual batch train loadout facility capable of loading up to 9,000 tons of coal per hour and 19.3 miles of track linked to separate Class I rail lines owned by Norfolk Southern and CSX, which significantly increases our efficiency in meeting our customers transportation needs. These mines and their logistics infrastructure, along with our 100% owned CONSOL Marine Terminal, which is served by both Norfolk Southern and CSX, will allow us to continue to participate in the world thermal and metallurgical coal markets. The ability to serve both domestic and international markets with premium thermal and crossover metallurgical coal provides tremendous optionality. 10 In order to continue to carry out our strategy, we will continue to adhere to and pursue the following strategic objectives Selectively grow our business to maximize shareholder value by capitalizing on synergies with our assets and expertise We plan to judiciously direct the cash generated by our operations toward those opportunities that present the greatest potential for value creation to our shareholders, particularly those that take advantage of synergies with our asset base and or with the expertise of our management team. To that end, we plan to regularly and rigorously evaluate opportunities both for organic growth and for acquisitions, joint ventures and other business arrangements in the coal industry and related industries that complement our core operations. In addition, our ownership interest in CCR provides us with a unique vehicle for generating cash and raising capital, through the potential future drop down of assets into CCR which, if utilized, will allow us to generate cash to assist in the execution of our growth strategy. Both the PAMC and our Greenfield Reserves present the potential for organic growth projects if long term market conditions are favorable. For example, we are currently negotiating a project to improve the recovery and processing of fine coal from the Central Preparation Plant, which has the potential to add up to 15 million tons per year of additional clean coal production without additional mining of raw tons. We are also actively engaged in research and development projects to improve the productivity of our Central Preparation Plant and our longwall operations through the use of technology and automation, such as de bottlenecking projects at the Central Preparation Plant and shearer automation technology. Moreover, the Harvey Mine existing infrastructure, including its bottom development, slope belt and material handling system, is able to support an additional permanent longwall mining system with moderate additional capital investment in mining equipment. Such an investment would further increase the annual production capacity of the PAMC by approximately 5 million tons. Our Greenfield Reserves associated with the potential Mason Dixon and River Mine projects present additional organic growth opportunities in NAPP, and our Greenfield Reserves associated with the Itmann Mine, Martinka Mine and Birch Mine provide actionable organic growth opportunities in the metallurgical coal space, which we are currently evaluating. Our management team has extensive experience in developing, operating and marketing a wide variety of coal assets, and is well qualified to evaluate organic and external growth opportunities. We intend to prudently use our interest in CCR to benefit our growth strategy, and plan to carefully weigh any capital investment decisions against alternate uses of the cash to help ensure we are delivering the most value to our shareholders. Continue to grow our share at top performing rail served power plants in our core market areas, while opportunistically pursuing export and crossover metallurgical opportunities We plan to seek to minimize our market risk and maximize realizations by continuing to focus on selling coal to strategically selected, top performing, rail served power plants located in our core market areas in the eastern United States. In 2018, our top domestic power plant customers included twelve plants that each took delivery of more than 500,000 tons of PAMC coal. These top power plant customers, which collectively accounted for 88% of our domestic coal shipments in 2018, operated at a 12% greater weighted average capacity factor than other NAPP rail served plants during January through October (the most recent month for which data are available), and n1 have announced plans to retire during the next five years. We have grown our share at these plants from 10% in 2012 to 42% in the first ten months of 2018, and we believe we can continue to grow this share by displacing less competitive supply from NAPP, CAPP and other basins. We also plan to continue to work on optimizing our portfolio of top customer plants and identifying and penetrating new plants that we believe are aligned with our strategic objectives and would be a good fit for our coal. For example, we increased the volume of PAMC coal shipped to our 2 largest domestic customer plants in 2018 from 23 million tons in 2017 to 5.5 million tons in 2018. While the majority of our production is directed toward our established base of domestic power plant customers, many of which are secured through annual or multi year contracts, we also have continued to diversify our portfolio by placing a growing portion of our production in the export and crossover metallurgical markets. These markets provide us with pricing upside when markets are strong and with volume stability when markets are weak. For 2019 and 2020, our contracted position, as of February 7, 2019, is at >95% and 53%, respectively, assuming a 27 million ton annual coal sales volume. We believe our committed and contracted position is well balanced in hedging against market downside risk while allowing us to continue to build out our portfolio strategically and opportunistically as the market evolves. Drive operational excellence through safety, compliance, and continuous improvement We intend to continue focusing on our core values of safety, compliance and continuous improvement. We operate some of the most productive, lowest cost underground mines in the coal industry, while simultaneously setting some of the industry highest standards for safety and compliance. For 2014 through 2018, our Mine Safety and Health Administration ( MSHA ) reportable incident rate was approximately 34% lower than the national average underground bituminous coal mine incident rate. Furthermore, our MSHA significant and substantial ( S&S ) citation rate per 100 inspection hours was approximately 36% lower than the industry average MSHA S&S citation rate over the twelve month period ended December 31, 2018. We believe that our focus on safety and compliance promotes greater reliability in our operations, which fosters long term customer relationships and lower operating costs that support higher margins. Consistent with our core value of continuous improvement, we have 11 improved our productivity from 5.69 tons per employee hour in 2014 to 7.62 tons per employee hour in 2018, and have reduced our cash costs of coal sold per ton by 21% over this same period. We intend to continue to grow the economic competiveness of our operations by proactively identifying, pursuing and implementing efficiency improvements and new technologies that can drive down unit costs without compromising safety or compliance. Ability to Access Capital Markets through Various Financing Vehicles Our controlling ownership interest in the Partnership provides us with a unique vehicle for generating cash and raising capital to pursue our growth strategy. Over time we may drop down assets into CCR. We believe that such drop downs, if utilized, would allow us to grow CCR distributions and potentially increase the value of the units and incentive distribution rights of CCR that we hold. Furthermore, the cash generated from these drop downs could help us to accelerate the execution of our growth strategy. Finally, we believe that our different classes of securities (common stock and partnership units) provide us with multiple options for accessing capital markets and taking advantage of the best available cost of capital at any given point in time. We believe this is a unique advantage for us compared to other companies in the coal industry. We have generated significant free cash flow since the separation and distribution, which has allowed us to opportunistically pay down our debt. This reduced leverage on our balance sheet and improved liquidity allows us to pursue attractive organic growth opportunities and accretive acquisitions. We constantly seek to improve our capital market capacity to provide additional funds, if needed, to grow our business. Our Competitive Strengths We believe we are well positi1d to successfully execute our business strategies because of the following competitive strengths Focus on free cash flow generation supported by industry leading margins and optimized production levels We intend to continue our focus on maintaining high margins by optimizing production from our high quality reserves and leveraging our extensive logistics infrastructure and broad market reach. The PAMC low cost structure, high quality product, favorable access to rail and port infrastructure and diverse base of end use customers allow it to move large volumes of coal at positive cash margins throughout a variety of market conditions. For example, despite recent challenging domestic market conditions driven largely by relatively mild weather, low natural gas prices, and stagnant electricity demand, which caused total U.S. coal production to fall by approximately 15% from 2015 to 2018, PAMC managed to grow production by approximately 21% during this same period. Through our recent capital investment program, we have optimized our mining operations and logistics infrastructure to sustainably drive down our cash operating costs. Furthermore, our significant portfolio of multi year, committed and priced contracts with our longstanding customer base will enhance our ability to sustain high margins in varied commodity price environments. We believe that these factors will help enable us to maintain higher margins per ton on average than our competitors and better position us to maintain profitability throughout commodity price cycles. Extensive, High Quality Reserve Base The PAMC has extensive high quality reserves of bituminous coal. We mine our reserves from the Pittsburgh No. 8 Coal Seam, which is a large contiguous formation of uniform, high Btu coal that is ideal for high productivity, low cost longwall operations. As of December 31, 2018, the PAMC included 698.5 million tons of recoverable coal reserves that are sufficient to support approximately 25 years of full capacity production. The advantageous qualities of our coal enable us to compete for demand from a broader range of coal fired power plants compared to mining operations in basins that typically produce coal with a comparatively lower heat content (ILB and the Powder River Basin ( PRB )), higher sulfur content (ILB and most areas in NAPP) and higher chlorine content (certain areas of ILB). Our remaining reserves have an average as received gross heat content of 12,907 Btu lb, while production from the PRB, ILB, CAPP and the rest of NAPP averages approximately 8,700 Btu lb, 11,300 Btu lb, 12,200 Btu lb and 12,400 Btu lb, respectively (based on the average quality reported by EIA for U.S. power plant deliveries for the 3 years ended June 30, 2018). Moreover, our remaining reserves have an average sulfur content of 230%, while production from the ILB averages ~29% sulfur and production from the rest of NAPP averages ~33% sulfur (again, based on EIA power plant delivery data for the 3 years ended June 30, 2018). With our high Btu content and low cost structure, our 2018 total costs of tons sold averaged $137 per mmBtu, which is lower than any monthly average Louisiana Henry Hub natural gas spot price during the past 20+ years, and provides a strong foundation for competing against natural gas even after accounting for differences in delivered costs and power plant efficiencies. In addition to the substantial reserve base associated with the PAMC, our 16 billion tons of Greenfield Reserves in NAPP, CAPP and ILB feature both thermal and metallurgical reserves and provide additional optionality for organic growth or m1tization as market conditions allow. 12 World Class, Well Capitalized, Low Cost Longwall Mining Complex Since 2006, we have invested over $24 billion at the PAMC ($15 billion of which has been invested in the past seven years) to develop technologically advanced, large scale longwall mining operations and related production and logistics infrastructure. As a result, the PAMC is the most productive and efficient coal mining complex in NAPP, averaging 7.31 tons of coal production per employee hour in 2016 2017, compared to 5.57 tons of coal production per employee hour for other currently operating NAPP longwall mines. For the year ending December 31, 2018, productivity further increased to 7.62 tons of coal per employee hour, compared with an average of 5.18 tons per employee hour for all other currently operating NAPP longwalls. We believe our substantial capital investment in the PAMC will enable us to maintain high production volumes, low operating costs and a strong safety and environmental compliance record, which we believe are key to supporting stable financial performance and cash flows throughout business and commodity price cycles. Strategically Located Mining Operations with Advanced Distribution Capabilities and Excellent Access to Key Logistics Infrastructure Our logistics infrastructure and proximity to coal fired power plants in the eastern United States provide us with operational and marketing flexibility, reduce the cost to deliver coal to our core markets and allow us to realize higher free on board ( FOB ) mine prices. We believe that we have a significant transportation cost advantage compared to many of our competitors, particularly producers in the ILB and PRB, for deliveries to customers in our core markets and to East Coast ports for international shipping. For example, based on publicly available data and internal estimates, we believe that the transportation cost advantage from our mines compared to ILB mines (not accounting for Btu differences) is approximately $3 to $8 per ton for coal delivered to foreign consumers in Europe and India, up to $3 to $5 per ton for coal delivered to domestic customers in the Carolinas, and an even more pronounced cost advantage for coal delivered to domestic customers in the mid Atlantic states. Our ability to accommodate multiple unit trains at the Central Preparation Plant, which includes a dual batch loadout facility capable of loading up to 9,000 tons of clean coal per hour and 19.3 miles of track with 3 sidings, allows for the seamless transition of locomotives from empty inbound trains to fully loaded outbound trains at our facility. Furthermore, the PAMC has exceptional access to export infrastructure in the United States. Through our 100% owned CONSOL Marine Terminal, served by both the Norfolk Southern and CSX railroads, we are able to participate in the world seaborne coal markets with premium thermal and crossover metallurgical coal. Strong, Well Established Customer Base Supporting Contractual Volumes We have a well established and diverse blue chip customer base, comprised primarily of domestic electric power producing companies located in the eastern United States. We have had success entering into multi year coal sales agreements with our customers due to our longstanding relationships, reliability of production and delivery, competitive pricing and high coal quality. More than 90% of our sales in 2018 were to customer companies that were in our 2017 portfolio, and all but 1 of our top domestic power plant customers in 2018 (which represent the twelve plants to which we shipped at least 500,000 tons of PAMC coal in 2018), have been in our portfolio for at least five consecutive years. In addition, to mitigate our exposure with respect to coal fired power plant retirements, we have strategically developed our customer base to include power plants that are economically positi1d to continue operating for the foreseeable future and that are equipped with state of the art environmental controls. In 2018, less than 15% of our total sales were to domestic power plant customers that have announced plans to retire during the next five years. Moreover, n1 of our top twelve customer plants, which accounted for 88% of our domestic coal shipments in 2018, have announced plans to retire in the next five years. These top plants operated at a 12% higher weighted average capacity factor than other NAPP rail served plants in January October 2018 (the most recent month for which data are available), highlighting their economic competitiveness in the challenging power markets. Since 2012, the Company has increased its market share at these twelve plants from 10% to 42%. In addition to our robust domestic customer base, we also have favorable access to seaborne coal markets through our long standing commercial relationship with a leading coal trading and brokering customer that maintains a broad market presence with foreign coal consumers. We have grown our exports of PAMC coal to the seaborne thermal and crossover metallurgical markets from an average of 5.5 million tons per year (or approximately 23% of our annual sales volume) in 2015 2016 to 8.0 million tons (or approximately 29% of our annual sales volume) in 2018. Highly Experienced Management Team and Operating Team Our management and operating teams have (i) significant expertise owning, developing and managing complex thermal and metallurgical coal mining operations, (ii) valuable relationships with customers, railroads and other participants across the coal industry, (iii) technical wherewithal and demonstrated success in developing new applications and customers for our coal products, in both the thermal and metallurgical markets, and (iv) a proven track record of successfully building, enhancing and managing coal assets in a reliable and cost effective manner throughout all parts of the commodity cycle. We intend to leverage these qualities to continue to successfully develop our coal mining assets while efficiently and flexibly managing our operations to maximize operating cash flow. 13 CONSOL Energy Capital Expenditure Budget In 2019, CONSOL Energy expects to invest $135 $155 million in maintenance capital expenditures. The Company continually evaluates potential acquisitions. Detail Coal Operations Recoverable Coal Reserves The Company's estimates of recoverable coal reserves are calculated internally using the face positions of the Pennsylvania Mining Complex longwall mines as of December 31, 2018. The December 31, 2018 reserves were estimated using the same techniques and assumptions as in prior years. These estimates are based on geologic data, coal ownership information and current and proposed mine plans. CONSOL Energy's recoverable coal reserves are proven and probable reserves that could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination, taking into account mining recovery and preparation plant yield. These estimates are periodically updated to reflect past coal production, new drilling information and other geologic or mining data. Acquisitions or dispositions of coal properties will also change these estimates. Changes in mining methods may increase or decrease the recovery basis for a coal seam, as will changes in preparation plant processes. The ability to update or modify the estimates of the Company's recoverable coal reserves is restricted to the exploration group and all modifications are documented. Reserves are defined by SEC Industry Guide 7 as that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Industry Guide 7 divides reserves between Proven (Measured) Reserves and Probable (Indicated) Reserves, which are defined as follows Proven (Measured) Reserves. Reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; and grade and or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. Probable (Indicated) Reserves. Reserves for which quantity and grade and or quality are computed from information similar to that used for Proven (Measured) Reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling, and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for Proven (Measured) Reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. Spacing of points of observation for confidence levels in the Company's reserve calculations is based on guidelines in U.S. Geological Survey Circular 891 (Coal Resource Classification System of the U.S. Geological Survey). CONSOL Energy's estimates for proven reserves have the highest degree of geologic assurance. Because of the well known continuity of the Pittsburgh No. 8 Coal Seam, estimates for proven reserves are based on points of observation that are equal to or less than 3,000 feet, and estimates for probable reserves are computed from points of observation that are between 3,000 feet and 7,920 feet apart. The Company's estimates of recoverable coal reserves do not rely on isolated points of observation. Small pods of reserves based on a single observation point are not considered; continuity between observation points over a large area is necessary for proven or probable reserves. The Company's recoverable coal reserves fall within the range of commercially marketed coal grades in the United States. The marketability of coal depends on its value in use for a particular application, and this is affected by coal quality, including sulfur content, ash content and heating value. Modern power plant boiler design aspects can compensate for coal quality differences that occur. As a result, all of the Company's coal can be marketed for the electric power generation industry. In addition, the Company's reserves currently exhibit thermoplastic behavior suitable for cokemaking, which enables it, if market dynamics are favorable, to capture greater margins from selling its coal in the metallurgical market to cokemakers and steel manufacturers who utilize modern cokemaking technologies. The addition of this crossover market adds additional assurance that CONSOL Energy's recoverable coal reserves are commercially marketable. At December 31, 2018, the Company had an estimated 23 billion tons of recoverable coal reserves. As of December 31, 2018, the PAMC included 698.5 million tons of recoverable coal reserves that are sufficient to support approximately 25 years of full capacity production. Estimates of the Company recoverable coal reserves have historically been calculated both by internal geologists and engineers and independent third parties. Reserve estimates and evaluation processes are periodically audited by independent third parties to ensure accuracy. 14 The Company recoverable coal reserves include 87 million tons of undeveloped reserves that are classified as high vol, mid vol or low vol metallurgical coal. Additionally, worldwide demand for metallurgical coal allows some of our recoverable coal reserves, currently classified as thermal coal but that possess certain qualities, to be sold as metallurgical coal. The extent to which we can sell thermal coal as crossover metallurgical coal depends upon a number of factors, including the quality characteristics of the reserve, the specific quality requirements and constraints of the end use customer and market conditions (which affect whether customers are compelled to substitute lower quality crossover coal for higher quality metallurgical coal in their blends to realize economic benefits). The addition of this cross over market adds additional assurance to the Company that all of its recoverable coal reserves are commercially marketable. The Company assigns coal reserves to each mine within the Pennsylvania Mining Complex. The amount of coal we assign to the Pennsylvania Mining Complex generally is sufficient to support mining through the duration of our current mining permit. Under federal law, we must renew our mining permits every five years. All assigned reserves have their required permits or governmental approvals, or there is a high probability that these approvals will be secured. In addition, the Pennsylvania Mining Complex may have access to additional reserves that have not yet been assigned. We refer to these reserves as accessible. Accessible reserves are recoverable coal reserves that can be accessed by an existing mining complex, utilizing the existing infrastructure of the complex to mine and to process the coal in this area. Mining an accessible reserve does not require additional capital spending beyond that required to extend or to continue the normal progression of the mine, such as the sinking of airshafts or the construction of portal facilities. Some reserves may be accessible by more than 1 mine because of the proximity of many of our mines to 1 another. In the table below, the accessible reserves indicated for a mine are based on our review of current mining plans and reflect our best judgment as to which mine is most likely to utilize the reserve. Assigned and unassigned coal reserves are recoverable coal reserves which are either owned or leased. The leases have terms extending up to 30 years and generally provide for renewal through the anticipated life of the associated mine. These renewals are exercisable by the payment of minimum royalties. Under current mining plans, assigned reserves reported will be mined out within the period of existing leases or within the time period of probable lease renewal periods. 15 Pennsylvania Mining Complex Pennsylvania Mining Complex. The Pennsylvania Mining Complex is located in Enon, Pennsylvania and consists of 3 deep longwall mining operations, the Bailey Mine, the Enlow Fork Mine and the Harvey Mine, and a centralized preparation plant. The design of the PAMC is optimized to produce large quantities of coal on a cost efficient basis. The PAMC is able to sustain high production volumes at comparatively low operating costs due to, among other things, its technologically advanced longwall mining systems, logistics infrastructure and safety. All of the PAMC's mines utilize longwall mining, which is a highly automated underground mining technique that produces large volumes of coal at lower costs compared to other underground mining methods. The PAMC typically operates five longwalls and 15 17 continuous mining sections. The current annual production capacity of the PAMC is approximately 28.5 million tons of coal. The central preparation plant is connected via conveyor belts to each of the PAMC's mines and cleans and processes up to 8,200 tons of coal per hour. The PAMC's on site logistics infrastructure at the central preparation plant includes a dual batch train loadout facility capable of loading up to 9,000 tons of coal per hour and 19.3 miles of track linked to separate Class I rail lines owned by Norfolk Southern and CSX, which significantly increases the PAMC's efficiency in meeting its customers' transportation needs. Bailey Mine. The Bailey Mine is the first mine developed at the Pennsylvania Mining Complex. As of December 31, 2018, the Bailey mine assigned and accessible reserve base contained an aggregate of 1634 million tons of clean recoverable coal with an average as received gross heat content of approximately 12,890 Btus per pound and an approximate average pounds of sulfur dioxide per mmBtu of 4.05. Construction of the slope and initial air shaft began in 1982 The slope development reached the coal seam at a depth of approximately 600 feet and, following development of the slope bottom, commercial coal production began in 1984. Longwall mining production commenced in 1985, and the second longwall was placed into operation in 1987. In 2010, a new slope and overland belt system was commissi1d, which allowed a large percentage of the Bailey mine to be sealed off. For the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , the Bailey mine produced 127 , 121 and 121 million tons of coal, respectively. The Bailey mine typically employs six to seven continuous mining units to develop the mains and gate roads for its longwall panels. Enlow Fork Mine. The Enlow Fork Mine is located directly north of the Bailey Mine. As of December 31, 2018, the Enlow Fork mine assigned and accessible reserve base contained an aggregate of 3336 million tons of clean recoverable coal with an average as received gross heat content of approximately 12,940 Btus per pound and an approximate average pounds of sulfur dioxide per mmBtu of 321 Initial underground development was started from the Bailey mine while the Enlow Fork slope was being constructed. Once the slope bottom was developed and the slope belt became operational, seals were constructed to separate the 2 mines. Following development of the slope bottom, commercial coal production began in 1989. Longwall mining production commenced in 1991, and the second longwall came online in 1992 In 2014, a new slope and overland belt system was commissi1d and a substantial portion of the Enlow Fork mine was sealed. For the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , the Enlow Fork mine produced 9.9 , 9.2 and 9.6 million tons of coal, respectively. The Enlow Fork mine typically employs six to seven continuous mining units to develop the mains and gate roads for its longwall panels. Harvey Mine. The Harvey Mine is located directly east of the Bailey and Enlow Fork Mines. As of December 31, 2018, the Harvey mine assigned and accessible reserve base contained an aggregate of 2015 million tons of clean recoverable coal with an average as received gross heat content of approximately 12,870 Btus per pound and an approximate average pounds of sulfur dioxide per mmBtu of 376. Similar to the Enlow Fork mine, the Harvey mine was developed off of the Bailey mine slope bottom. Once the slope for the Harvey mine was placed into operation, seals were built to separate the 2 mines, and the original slope was dedicated solely to the Harvey mine, which eliminated the need to make significant capital expenditures to develop, among other things, a new slope, air shaft and portal facility. Development of the Harvey mine began in 2009, and construction of the supporting surface facilities commenced in 2011 Longwall mining production commenced in March 2014. For the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , the Harvey mine produced 5.0 , 4.8 and 30 million tons of coal, respectively. The Harvey mine typically employs 3 continuous mining units to develop the mains and gate roads for its longwall panels. The Harvey mine existing infrastructure, including its bottom development, slope belt and material handling system, has the capacity to add 1 incremental permanent longwall mining system with additional mine development and capital investment. 16 The following table provides the location of our active mining complexes that are part of the PAMC and the coal reserves associated with each operation. CONSOL ENERGY PENNSYLVANIA MINING COMPLEX Proven and Probable Assigned and Accessible Coal Reserves as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 Recoverable Average As Received Heat Coal Reserves(2) Preparation Seam Value(1) Tons in Facility Reserve Coal Thickness (Btu lb) Owned Leased Millions Mine Reserve Location Class Seam (feet) Typical Range (%) (%) 12 31 2018 12 31 2017 ASSIGNED OPERATING PA Mining Operations Bailey Enon, PA Assigned Operating Pittsburgh 7.4 12,940 12,810 13,040 41% 59% 623 75.4 Accessible Pittsburgh 7.5 12,860 12,670 13,140 65% 35% 1011 169.8 Enlow Fork Enon, PA Assigned Operating Pittsburgh 7.5 13,010 12,850 13,190 95% 5% 820 934 Accessible Pittsburgh 7.6 12,910 12,650 13,150 74% 26% 2516 2021 Harvey Enon, PA Assigned Operating Pittsburgh 6.9 13,030 12,900 13,200 93% 7% 436 57.8 Accessible Pittsburgh 7.7 12,830 12,790 13,190 99% 1% 157.9 137.0 Total Assigned Operating and Accessible 698.5 735.5 (1) The heat values (gross calorific values) shown for Assigned Operating reserves are based on the 2018 actual quality and five year forecasted quality for each mine reserve, assuming that the coal is washed to an extent consistent with normal full capacity operation of each mine's complex preparation plant. Actual quality is based on laboratory analysis of samples collected from coal shipments delivered in 2018. Forecasted quality is derived from exploration sample analysis results, which have been adjusted to account for anticipated moisture and for the effects of mining and coal preparation. The heat values (gross calorific values) shown for Accessible Reserves are on an as received basis (dry values obtained from drill hole analyses, adjusted for moisture) and are prorated by the associated Assigned Operating product values to account for similar mining and processing methods. (2) Recoverable reserves are calculated based on the area in which mineable coal exists, coal seam thickness, and average density determined by laboratory testing of drill core samples. This calculation is adjusted to account for coal that will not be recovered during mining and for losses that occur if the coal is processed after mining. Reserve tons are reported on an as received basis, based on the anticipated product moisture. Reserves are reported only for those coal seams that are controlled by ownership or leases. (3) Recoverable coal reserves decreased 37 million tons from December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018, as a result of producing 27.6 million tons in the year ended December 31, 2018, as well as a reduction of 9.4 million tons from a re evaluation and reallocation of recoverable coal reserves among the 3 mines at the PAMC. 17 The following table sets forth our assigned non operating and unassigned recoverable coal reserves by region CONSOL Energy ASSIGNED Non Operating and UNASSIGNED Recoverable Coal Reserves as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 Recoverable Recoverable Reserves (2) Coal Reserves Tons in (Tons in As Received Heat Owned Leased Millions Millions) Coal Producing Region Value (1) (Btu lb) (%) (%) 12 31 2018 12 31 2017 Northern Appalachia (Pennsylvania, Ohio, Northern West Virginia) (3) 11,400 14,000 85% 15% 1,080.9 1,080.9 Central Appalachia (Virginia, Southern West Virginia) 12,400 14,100 75% 25% 164.9 164.9 Illinois Basin (Illinois, Western Kentucky, Indiana) 11,600 12,000 77% 23% 316.4 316.4 Total 82% 18% 1,5622 1,5622 _______________ (1) The heat value (gross calorific values) estimates for Northern Appalachian and Central Appalachian Assigned Non Operating and Unassigned coal reserves are on an as received basis and include adjustments for moisture that may be added during mining or processing as well as for dilution by rock lying above or below the coal seam. For Assigned Non Operating coal reserves, the mining and processing methods previously in use are used for these estimates. The heat value estimates for the Illinois Basin Unassigned reserves are based primarily on exploration drill core data that may not include adjustments for moisture added during mining or processing, or for dilution by rock lying above or below the coal seam. (2) Recoverable reserves are calculated based on the area in which mineable coal exists, coal seam thickness, and average density determined by laboratory testing of drill core samples. This calculation is adjusted to account for coal that will not be recovered during mining and for losses that occur if the coal is processed after mining. Reserve tons are reported on an as received basis, based on the anticipated product moisture. Reserves are reported only for those coal seams that are controlled by ownership or leases. (3) 1433 million tons of the Northern Appalachia leased tons are controlled by Consolidation Coal Company, a former subsidiary of our former parent that was sold in December 2013 As of filing, these tons are still controlled by Consolidation Coal Company but are shown in CONSOL Energy's reserves due to a binding agreement that these tons will be released to CONSOL Energy upon the assignment of the underlying lease to CONSOL Energy. . 18 The following table classifies the Company's coal by rank, projected sulfur dioxide emissions and heating value (British thermal units per pound). The table also classifies bituminous coal as high, medium and low volatile which is based on fixed carbon and volatile matter. CONSOL Energy Proven and Probable Recoverable Coal Reserves By Product (In Millions of Tons) as of December 31, 2018 120 lbs. > 120 250 lbs. > 250 lbs. Percent By By Region S02 MMBtu S02 MMBtu S02 MMBtu Total Product Metallurgical High Vol A Bituminous (NAPP) 39.6 39.6 17 % Med Vol Bituminous (CAPP) 5.1 5.1 0.2 % Low Vol Bituminous (CAPP) 16.0 26.3 423 19 % Total Metallurgical 211 65.9 87.0 38 % Thermal (1) NAPP 16.5 1,7233 1,739.8 77.0 % CAPP 46.0 715 117.5 5.2 % ILB 1011 215.3 316.4 14.0 % Total Thermal 46.0 189.1 1,938.6 2,1737 96.2 % Total 67.1 255.0 1,938.6 2,260.7 100.0 % Percent of Total 30 % 113 % 85.7 % 100.0 % _______________ (1) 1433 million tons of the Northern Appalachia product are controlled by Consolidation Coal Company, a former subsidiary of our former parent that was sold in December 2013 As of this filing, these tons are still controlled by Consolidation Coal Company but are shown in CONSOL Energy reserves due to a binding agreement that these tons will be released to CONSOL Energy upon the assignment of the underlying lease to CONSOL Energy. Title to coal properties that we lease or purchase and the boundaries of these properties are verified by law firms retained by us at the time we lease or acquire the properties. Consistent with industry practice, abstracts and title reports are reviewed and updated approximately five years prior to planned development or mining of the property. If defects in title or boundaries of undeveloped reserves are discovered in the future, control of and the right to mine reserves could be adversely affected. The following table sets forth the total royalty tonnage and the amount of income (net of related expenses) we received from royalty payments for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 . Total Total Royalty Royalty Tonnage Income Year (in thousands) (in thousands) 2018 6,163 $21,917 2017 7,656 $26,023 2016 7,847 $19,725 Excludes advanced mining royalty payments received of $2,805, $2,066 and $14 during the years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Royalty tonnage leased to third parties is not included in the amounts of produced tons that we report. Recoverable reserves do not include reserves attributable to properties that we lease to third parties. 19 Production In the year ended December 31, 2018 , 100% of the Company's production came from underground mines equipped with longwall mining systems. The Company employs longwall mining techniques in its underground mines where the geology is favorable and reserves are sufficient. Underground longwall mining uses continuous mining units to develop the mains and gate roads for longwall panels. The longwall systems are highly mechanized, capital intensive operations to efficiently extract coal within the longwall panels. Mines using longwall systems have a low variable cost structure compared with other types of mines and can achieve high productivity levels compared with those of other underground mining methods. Because the Company has substantial reserves readily suitable to these operations, the Company believes that these longwall mines can increase capacity at a low incremental cost. The following table shows the production, in millions of tons, for the Company's mines for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , the location of each mine, the type of mine, the type of equipment used at each mine, method of transportation and the year each mine was established or acquired by us. Preparation Tons Produced Year Facility Mine Mining (in millions) Established Mine Location Type Equipment Transportation 2018 2017 2016 or Acquired PA Mining Operations Bailey Enon, PA U LW CM R R B 127 121 121 1984 Enlow Fork Enon, PA U LW CM R R B 9.9 9.2 9.6 1990 Harvey Enon, PA U LW CM R R B 5.0 4.8 30 2014 Total 27.6 26.1 24.7 U Underground LW Longwall CM Continuous Miner R Rail R B Rail to Barge Coal Marketing and Sales The following table sets forth the Company produced tons sold and average sales price for the period indicated Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 Company Produced PA Mining Operations Tons Sold (in millions) 27.7 26.1 24.6 Average Sales Price per Ton Sold PA Mining Operations $ 49.28 $ 45.52 $ 4331 We sell coal produced by our mines and additional coal that is purchased by us for resale from other producers. We maintain a United States sales office in Pittsburgh. Approximately 68% of our 2018 coal sales were made to U.S. electric generators, 29% of our 2018 coal sales were priced on export markets and 3% of our 2018 coal sales were made to other domestic customers. Approximately 65% of our 2017 coal sales were made to U.S. electric generators, 32% of our 2017 coal sales were priced on export markets and 3% of our 2017 coal sales were made to other domestic customers. Approximately 75% of our 2016 coal sales were made to U.S. electric generators, 22% of our 2016 coal sales were priced on export markets and 3% of our 2016 coal sales were made to other domestic customers. We had sales to approximately 35 customers from our 2018 coal operations. During 2018, 3 customers each comprised over 10% of our coal sales, aggregating approximately 57% of our sales. Annual metallurgical coal revenues for the past 3 years ranged from $68.3 million to $821 million. 20 Coal Contracts and Pricing We sell coal to an established customer base through opportunities as a result of strong business relationships, or through a formalized bidding process. Contract volumes range from a single shipment to multi year agreements for millions of tons of coal. The average contract term is between 1 to 3 years. As a normal course of business, efforts are made to renew or extend contracts scheduled to expire. Although there are no guarantees, we generally have been successful in renewing or extending contracts in the past. For the year ended December 31, 2018, approximately 68% of all the coal we produced was sold under contracts with terms of 1 year or more. We expect total consolidated Pennsylvania Mining Complex annual sales to be approximately 27 million tons for 2019 and 2020. Coal pricing for contracts with terms of 1 year or less is generally fixed. Coal pricing for multiple year agreements generally provides the opportunity to periodically adjust the contract prices through pricing mechanisms consisting of 1 or more of the following Fixed price contracts with pre established prices; Periodically negotiated prices that reflect market conditions at the time; Price restricted to an agreed upon percentage increase or decrease; Base price plus escalation methods which allow for periodic price adjustments based on inflation indices or other negotiated indices; or Positive electric power price related adjustments. The volume of coal to be delivered is specified in each of our coal contracts. Although the volume to be delivered under the coal contracts is stipulated, the parties may vary the timing of the deliveries within specified limits. Coal contracts typically contain force majeure provisions allowing for the suspension of performance by either party for the duration of certain force majeure events. Force majeure events include, but are not limited to, unexpected significant geological conditions or natural disasters. Depending on the language of the contract, some contracts may terminate upon continuance of an event of force majeure that extends for a period greater than 3 to twelve months. Of our 2018 sales tons, approximately 68% were sold to U.S. electric generators, 29% were priced on export thermal markets and 3% were sold to other domestic customers. In 2018, we derived greater than 10% of our total coal sales revenue from 3 customers. As of January 1, 2019, we had six sales agreements with these customers that expire at various times in 2019 through 2021 During the past 3 years, our average realization (sales price per ton sold) for coal produced from the PAMC increased from $4331 ton in 2016 to $49.28 ton in 2018. Pricing for our product depends strongly on conditions in the domestic thermal coal market, which accounted for at least 68% of our total sales volumes in each of 2016, 2017, and 2018. The prices we are able to achieve in the domestic thermal market depend on a number of factors, including (i) the supply demand balance for Northern Appalachian coal, (ii) prices for other competing sources of energy used for electricity generation, such as natural gas, (iii) power prices in the regions we serve, (iv) prices for coals from other basins (including the Central Appalachian Basin, Illinois Basin, and Powder River Basin) that compete in these same regions, and (v) pricing under our longer term contracts, which may have been entered into under different market conditions. Lower natural gas prices, coupled with increased capacity from new natural gas combined cycle power plants, put pressure on power prices and on the demand for coal fired electric power generation. Colder winter weather in 2018, coupled with more normal summer weather have allowed power plants to draw their inventories down further and contributed to a rebound in demand. These factors affect the prices that we are able to achieve in the domestic thermal markets as older contracts roll off and are replaced by new contracts. Similarly, imbalances in global supply and demand for coal can cause substantial variability in pricing in the export thermal market and the export metallurgical market. Terminal Services In 2018, approximately 124 million tons of coal were shipped through the CONSOL Marine Terminal owned by our subsidiary, CONSOL Marine Terminals LLC. Approximately 60% of the tonnage shipped was produced by the Pennsylvania Mining Complex. The terminal can either store coal or load coal directly into vessels from rail cars. It is also 1 of the few terminals in the United States served by 2 railroads, Norfolk Southern Corporation and CSX Transportation Inc. CONSOL Marine Terminal has significant storage capacity of 11 million tons with more than thirty acres of capacity for stockpiles. The facility possesses extensive blending capabilities, and has handled over 11 million tons of coal per year on average since 2010, with a potential maximum throughput capacity of 15 million tons annually. 21 Non Core Coal Assets and Surface Properties We own significant coal assets that are not in our short or medium term development plans. We continually explore the m1tization of these non core assets by means of sale, lease, contribution to joint ventures, or a combination of the foregoing in order to bring the value of these assets forward for the benefit of our stockholders. Distribution Coal is transported from the Company mining operations to customers by railroad cars, trucks, vessels or a combination of these means of transportation. Most customers negotiate their own transportation rates and we employ transportation specialists who negotiate freight and equipment agreements with various transportation suppliers, including railroads, barge lines, terminal operators, ocean vessel brokers and trucking companies for certain customers. Seasonality Our business has historically experienced limited variability in its results due to the effect of seasonal changes. Demand for coal fired power can increase due to unusually hot or cold weather as power consumers use more air conditioning or heating, respectively. Conversely, mild weather can result in weaker demand for our coal. Adverse weather conditions, such as blizzards or floods, can impact our ability to transport coal over our overland conveyor systems and to transport our coal by rail. Competition The coal industry is highly competitive, with numerous producers selling into all markets that use coal. There are numerous large and small producers in all coal producing basins of the United States, and we compete with many of these producers, including those who export coal abroad. Potential changes to international trade agreements, trade concessions or other political and economic arrangements may benefit coal producers operating in countries other than the United States. We may be adversely impacted on the basis of price or other factors with companies that in the future may benefit from favorable foreign trade policies or other arrangements. In addition, coal is sold internationally in U.S. dollars and, as a result, general economic conditions in foreign markets and changes in foreign currency exchange rates may provide our foreign competitors with a competitive advantage. If our competitors currencies decline against the U.S. dollar or against our foreign customers local currencies, those competitors may be able to offer lower prices for coal to our customers. Furthermore, if the currencies of our overseas customers were to significantly decline in value in comparison to the U.S. dollar, those customers may seek decreased prices for the coal we sell to them. Consequently, currency fluctuations could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal in international markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The most important factors on which we compete are coal price, coal quality and characteristics, transportation costs and reliability of supply. Demand for coal and the prices that we will be able to obtain for our coal are closely linked to coal consumption patterns of the domestic electric generation industry and foreign coal consumers. These coal consumption patterns are influenced by many factors that are beyond our control, including demand for electricity, which is significantly dependent upon economic activity and summer and winter temperatures in the United States, government regulation, technological developments and the location, quality, price and availability of competing sources of fuel. Indirect competition from natural gas fired plants that are relatively more efficient, less expensive to construct and less difficult to permit than coal fired plants has the most potential to displace a significant amount of coal fired electric power generation in the near term, particularly from older, less efficient coal fired powered generators. Federal and state mandates for increased use of electricity derived from renewable energy sources could affect demand for our coal. Such mandates, combined with other incentives to use renewable energy sources, such as tax credits, could make alternative fuel sources more competitive with coal. 22 Laws and Regulations Overview Our coal mining operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety regulations. Regulations relating to our operations require us to obtain permits and other licenses; reclaim and restore our properties after mining operations have been completed; store, transport and dispose of materials used or generated by our operations; manage surface subsidence from underground mining; control water and air emissions; protect wetlands and endangered plant and wildlife; and to ensure employee health and safety. Furthermore, the electric power generation industry is subject to extensive regulation regarding the environmental impact of its power generation activities, which could affect demand for our coal. Compliance with these laws has substantially increased the cost of coal mining, and the possibility exists that new legislation or regulations may be adopted which would have a significant impact on our coal mining operations or our customers ability to use our coal and may require us or our customers to change their operations significantly or incur substantial costs. The following is a summary of the more significant existing environmental and worker health and safety laws and regulations to which we and our customers business operations are subject and for which compliance may have a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, results of operations and financial position. Environmental Laws Clean Air Act . The federal Clean Air Act ( CAA ) and corresponding state and local laws and regulations affect all aspects of coal mining operations, both directly and indirectly. The CAA directly impacts our coal mining operations through permitting and emission control requirements for the construction or modification of certain facilities. Indirectly. the CAA affects the U.S. coal industry by extensively regulating the air emissions of coal fired electric power generating plants operated by our customers. Coal impurities are released into the air when coal is burned and the CAA regulates specific emissions, such as sulfur and mercury. These regulations restricting emissions from coal fired electric generating plants increase the costs to operate and could affect demand for coal as a fuel source, therefore potentially affecting the volume of our sales. Moreover, additional environmental regulations increase the likelihood that existing coal fired electric generating plants will be decommissi1d, including plants to which the Company sells coal, and reduce the likelihood that new coal fired plants will be built in the future. Mercury and Air Toxics Standards Rule . In 2012, the United States Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) promulgated or finalized several rules for New Source Performance Standards ( NSPS ) for coal and oil fired power plants. NSPS are technology based standards that vary depending on the particular source, such as a coal fired electric generating plant, and can have a significant influence on the cost of using coal as a fuel source. The EPA's 2012 Mercury and Air Toxics Standards rule ( MATS Rule ) established NSPS for coal fired electric generating units particulate matter ( PM ), sulfur dioxide ( SO 2 ) and nitrogen oxides ( NO X ). The MATS Rule also established national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants ( NESHAP ) for coal fired electric generating units for certain impurities such as mercury. Unlike pollutants regulated by an NSPS, pollutants regulated by a NESHAP require the maximum achievable control technology ( MACT ) be used to control emissions of the pollutant.The application of a MACT standard is generally more costly than other control technology standards, and prompted the closure of some facilities. The rule was challenged, ultimately rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court on June 29, 2015 for failing to consider the costs imposed by the MATS Rule, and remanded to the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit ( D.C. Circuit ) to determine whether to allow the EPA to address the rule deficiencies or to vacate and nullify the rule. In April 2017, the D.C. Circuit granted the EPA's request to stay the case to allow the agency to fully review the rule. Nevertheless, many coal fired electric power generators have already taken steps to comply with the MATS Rule as such required control and operational modifications can take significant time to install and or implement. On December 28, 2018, the EPA proposed to revise the 2016 supplemental cost finding for the MATS Rule, as well as the related risk and technology review required by the CAA. Under the proposal, the emissions standards and other requirements of the MATS Rule would remain in place while the EPA's methodology for assessing the costs and benefits of the rule were being modified. National Ambient Air Quality Standards . The CAA requires the EPA to set National Ambient Air Quality Standards ( NAAQS ) for six pollutants considered harmful to public health and the environment ( Criteria Pollutants ). In recent years, the EPA has adopted more stringent NAAQS for these Criteria Pollutants, which could directly or indirectly impact mining operations through the identification of new non attainment areas which could prompt local changes to permitting or emissions control requirements, as prescribed by federally mandated state implementation plans. The primary NAAQS set the permissible level of a particular Criteria Pollutant in the ambient air. In 2015, the EPA finalized the NAAQS for oz1 pollution and reduced the limit to 70 parts per billion (ppb) from the previous 75 ppb standard. The final rule was challenged in the D.C. Circuit. On April 7, 2017, the EPA advised the D.C. Circuit that it intended to reconsider the final rule and the Court subsequently stayed the 23 litigation pending further action by the EPA. In August 2018, the EPA ultimately decided not to revisit the rule. As a result, the D.C. Circuit lifted its stay of the 2015 oz1 NAAQS rule imposing the 70 ppb ambient air quality standard. Cross State Air Pollution Rule . On July 6, 2011, the EPA finalized the Cross State Air Pollution Rule ( CSAPR ). CSAPR regulates cross border emissions of criteria air pollutants such as SO 2 and NO X , particulate matter ( PM 25 ) and oz1 by requiring states to limit emissions from sources that contribute significantly to noncompliance with air quality standards. If the ambient levels of criteria air pollutants are above the thresholds set by the EPA, a region is considered to be in nonattainment for that pollutant and the EPA applies more stringent control standards for sources of air emissions located in the region. Implementation of CSAPR is being accomplished in phases Phase 1 began in 2015 and Phase 2 began in 2017. In September 2016, the EPA finalized revisions to the CSAPR. As of May 2017, this rule limits summertime NO X emissions from power plants in 22 states in the eastern United States, which may have an impact on how coal fired electric generating units are utilized in this region. Clean Power Plan . On September 20, 2013, the EPA issued a new proposal, Carbon Pollution Standard for New Power Plants , to establish separate NSPS for CO 2 emissions for natural gas fired turbines and coal fired units. This rule was finalized in late 2015, immediately challenged by multiple parties and in August 2017, was stayed by the D.C. Circuit to allow the Trump Administration's EPA to review the rule. In June 2014, the EPA announced its Clean Power Plan ( CPP ) intended to cut carbon emissions from existing power plants and published a proposed rule for public comment. Under the CPP, the EPA would create emission guidelines for states to follow in developing plans to address greenhouse gases ( GHGs ) predominantly through CO 2 emissions reductions from existing fossil fuel fired electric generating units. However, following numerous challenges to the CPP, the U.S. Supreme Court stayed the effective date of the CPP. Subsequently, on October 16, 2017, the EPA formally proposed repeal of the CPP and later solicited comments on CO 2 control measures that can be implemented at coal fired electricity generating facilities. In August 2018, the EPA released a proposed rule to replace the CPP the Affordable Clean Energy ( ACE ) rule. The ACE rule sets GHG guidelines for states to ultimately establish emissions limits and standards for existing coal fired electric generating facilities. The proposed ACE rule is less stringent than the CPP, as it does not establish emission reduction standards or targets for states; rather, the rule proposes a list of technologies that states can use to establish standards of performance for power generating units within their jurisdiction. The EPA projects the ACE rule to result in no change in total electric generating capacity, and increased coal production for power sector use by 2025. National Environmental Policy Act ( NEPA ) . NEPA requires federal agencies to assess the environmental effects of their proposed actions prior to taking a major Federal action , which encompasses agencies' decisions on our permitting applications and adoption of land management actions.When we propose activities that fall under federal jurisdiction, we are subject to NEPA reviews, which may create delays in project review and authorization timeframes, or increase the cost of compliance. In April 2017, pursuant to executive order, the Council on Environmental Quality ( CEQ ) the federal agency charged with overseeing implementation of NEPA withdrew its Final Guidance for Federal Departments and Agencies on Consideration of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and the Effects of Climate Change in National Environmental Policy Act Reviews. This guidance previously directed agencies to consider proposed actions' effects on climate change (including GHGs emission), and may have created additional delays and costs in the NEPA review process for the energy industry that are now no longer in place. Additionally, pursuant to Executive Order 13807 issued in August 2017, the CEQ has issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on NEPA that seeks to streamline the NEPA process, while also minimizing unnecessary litigation, cost, and delay for project prop1nts. The CEQ's proposed revisions to NEPA have yet to be updated, though the comment period for the rulemaking closed in August 2018. Nevertheless, certain Federal courts have held that GHGs must be considered under NEPA prior to a federal agency taking a major Federal action. Clean Water Act . The federal Clean Water Act ( CWA ) and corresponding state laws affect our coal operations by regulating discharges into certain waters, primarily through permitting. CWA permits issued either by the EPA or an analogous state agency typically require regular monitoring and compliance with limitations on defined pollutants and reporting requirements. Specific to the Company's operations, CWA permits and corresponding state laws often require (1) treatment of discharges from coal mining properties for non traditional pollutants, such as chlorides, selenium and dissolved solids and (2) requirements to dispose of produced wastes and other oil and gas wastes at approved disposal facilities. In order to obtain a permit for certain coal mining activities, including the construction of coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments, an operator may need to obtain a permit for the discharge of fill material from the Army Corps of Engineers ( ACOE ) and or a discharge permit from the state regulatory authority under the state counterpart to the CWA. Beginning in early 2009, the EPA took a number of initiatives that have resulted in delays and obstruction of the issuance of such permits for surface mining operations in the Appalachian states, including Pennsylvania where the Pennsylvania Mining Complex is located. Increased oversight of delegated state programmatic authority, coupled with individual permit review and additional requirements 24 imposed by the EPA, has resulted in delays in the review and issuance of permits. In addition, the Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasure ( SPCC ) requirements of the CWA apply to all our operations that use or produce oil and require the implementation of plans to address any spills and the installation of secondary containment around all storage tanks. These requirements under the CWA and SPCC may cause us to incur significant additional costs that could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. Additionally, which waterbodies are subject to the CWA has been in dispute for years. In June 2015, the EPA issued a rule to clarify which waterways are subject to federal jurisdiction under the CWA, known as the Clean Water Rule. This rule was quickly challenged and nationwide implementation was blocked by a federal appeals court. The Clean Water Rule would impose additional permitting obligations on the Company's operations by increasing the number of waterbodies subject to CWA permitting and other regulations. On February 28, 2017, President Trump issued an executive order prompting the EPA and ACOE to consider replacing the blocked Clean Water Rule. On December 11, 2018, the EPA and the ACOE proposed a new regulation to determine which waterbodies are subject to federal jurisdiction. The new proposal would lessen the number of waterbodies subject to the CWA as compared to the Clean Water Rule. On November 3, 2015, the EPA published the final Effluent Limitations Guidelines and Standards ( ELG ) rule, revising the regulations for the Steam Electric Power Generating category, which became effective on January 4, 2016. The rule sets the first federal limits on the levels of toxic metals in wastewater that can be discharged from power plants. On September 13, 2017, the EPA finalized a rule postponing for 2 years certain applicability dates for specific waste streams subject to the effluent limitations. The applicability date of the stricter effluent limits is the subject of on going litigation. Nevertheless, the combined effect of the coal combustion residuals rule ( CCR Rule ) (discussed below) and ELG regulations has compelled power generating companies to close existing ash ponds and may force the closure of certain older existing coal burning power plants that cannot comply with the new standards. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act . The federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ) and corresponding state laws and regulations affect coal mining by imposing requirements for the treatment, storage and disposal of certain wastes created throughout the coal mining process. Facilities where certain regulated wastes have been treated, stored or disposed of are subject to RCRA and may receive corrective action orders for instances of non compliance. Compliance with these regulations and receiving corrective action orders could adversely affect our results, financial condition and cash flows. RCRA is particularly important in the coal industry because it regulates coal combustion residuals ( Residuals ) byproducts of coal combustion. In April 2015, the EPA published Residuals regulations under RCRA for the disposal of Residuals from electric utilities and independent power producers. Importantly, Residuals are regulated under RCRA as non hazardous waste and avoid the stricter, more costly, regulations under RCRA's hazardous waste rules. Notably, the CCR Rule does not apply to Residuals placed in active or aband1d underground or surface mines. In 2018, the EPA proposed 2 types of alternative performance standards related to Residuals disposal. As proposed, these alternative standards appear to be less stringent than the current CCR Rule. However, these alternatives have not been finalized. Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act . The federal Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act ( SMCRA ) establishes minimum environmental standards for operational mines as well as reclamation standards for reclaiming post operational mined land. The U.S. Office of Surface Mining ( OSM ) is responsible for issuing permits applying these standards to individual mining operations. However, states that operate federally approved state programs may impose standards which are more stringent than the requirements of SMCRA and OSM's regulations and in many instances have d1 so. The Pennsylvania Mining Complex is located in states which have achieved primary jurisdiction for enforcement of SMCRA through approved state programs. In addition, SMCRA imposes a reclamation fee on all current mining operations, the proceeds of which are deposited in the Aband1d Mine Reclamation Fund, which is used to restore unreclaimed and aband1d mine lands mined before 1977. The current per ton fee is $0.12 per ton for underground mined coal. This fee is currently scheduled to be in effect until September 30, 2021 Federal and state laws require bonds to secure our obligations to reclaim lands used for mining and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. These bonds are provided by CONSOL Energy and are typically renewable on a yearly basis. Surety bond costs have increased while the market terms of surety bonds have generally become less favorable. It is possible that surety bond issuers may refuse to renew bonds or may demand additional collateral therefor. Any failure by CONSOL Energy to maintain, or our inability to acquire, surety bonds that are required by state and federal laws or the related collateral required by the bond issuers therefor, would have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce coal, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. Endangered Species Act ( ESA ) . The federal ESA and other related federal and state statutes protect species that have been classified as endangered or threatened with possible extinction. Protection of these species could prohibit or delay authorization of mining activities, or may place additional restrictions on our operations related to timbering, construction or vegetation. A 25 number of species indigenous to our operating areas are protected under the ESA; however, we do not believe the ESA would materially or adversely affect our mining operations under current approved mining plans. If more stringent or protective measures were required, or if additional critical habitat areas were designated, our operations could be exposed to additional requirements and expense, or delayed approval timeframes. Other Environmental Regulations . We are required to comply with other state, federal and local environmental laws in addition to those discussed above. These laws include, for example, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act, the Toxic Release Inventory, and the rules governing the use and storage of explosives regulated by the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms and the Department of Homeland Security. Health and Safety Laws Mine Safety . Legislative and regulatory changes have required us to purchase additional safety equipment, construct stronger seals to isolate mined out areas, and engage in additional training. We have also experienced more aggressive inspection protocols and with new regulations the volume of civil penalties has increased. Recent actions taken by federal and state governments include requiring the caching of additional supplies of self contained self rescuer devices underground; the purchase and installation of electronic communication and personal tracking devices underground; the purchase and installation of proximity detection devices on continuous miner machines; the placement of refuge chambers, which are structures designed to provide refuge for groups of miners during a mine emergency when evacuation from the mine is not possible, which will provide breathable air for 96 hours; the purchase of new fire resistant conveyor belting underground; additional training and testing that creates the need to hire additional employees; more stringent rock dusting requirements; and the purchase of personal dust monitors for collecting respirable dust samples from certain miners. On September 2, 2015, MSHA published proposed rules for underground coal mining operations concerning proximity detection systems for coal hauling machines and scoops. The rulemaking record for this proposed rule was closed on December 15, 2016, but on January 9, 2017, MSHA published a notice reopening the record and extending the comment period for this proposed rule for 30 days. MSHA extended the comment period again until April 10, 2017. MSHA has not issued a final rule regarding these proposed rules. On January 15, 2015, MSHA published a final rule requiring underground coal mine operations to equip continuous mining machines, except full face continuous mining machines, with proximity detection systems. The proximity detection system strengthens protection for miners by reducing the potential of pinning, crushing and striking hazards that result in accidents involving life threatening injuries and death. The final rule became effective March 16, 2015 and included a phased in schedule for newly manufactured and in service equipment. In 2010, MSHA rolled out the End Black Lung, Act Now initiative. As a result, MSHA implemented a new final rule on August 1, 2014 to lower miners exposure to respirable coal mine dust including using the new Personal Dust Monitor technology. This final rule was implemented in 3 phases. The first phase began on August 1, 2014 and utilized the current gravimetric sampling device to take full shift dust samples from the current designated occupations and areas. It also required additional record keeping and immediate corrective action in the event of overexposure. The second phase began on February 1, 2016 and required additional sampling for designated and other occupations using the new continuous personal dust monitor ( CPDM ) technology, which provides real time dust exposure information to the miner. CPDM equipment was purchased and was placed into service which was required to meet compliance with the new rule. Dust Coordinators and Dust Technicians were hired in order to meet the staffing demand to manage compliance with the new rule. The final phase of the rule went into effect on August 1, 2016. The current respirable dust standard was reduced from 20 to 15mg m3 for designated occupations and from 10 to 0.5mg m3 for Part 90 Miners (coal miners who show evidence of the development of black lung disease). Black Lung Legislation . Under federal black lung benefits legislation, each coal mine operator is required to make payments of black lung benefits or contributions to current and former coal miners totally disabled from black lung disease; certain survivors of miners who have died from black lung disease; and a trust fund for the payment of benefits and medical expenses to claimants whose last mine employment was before January 1, 1970, where no responsible coal mine operator has been identified for claims (where a coal miner's last coal employment was after December 31, 1969), or where the responsible coal mine operator has defaulted on the payment 26 of such benefits. The trust fund is funded by an excise tax on U.S. production of coal, at a 2018 rate of up to $110 per ton for deep mined coal and up to $0.55 per ton for surface mined coal, neither amount to exceed 4.4% of the gross sales price. On January 1, 2019, the excise tax levels reverted back to $0.50 per ton for deep mined coal and $0.25 per ton for surface mined coal, capped at 2% of the coal's selling price. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( PPACA ) of 2010 made 2 changes to the Federal Black Lung Benefits Act. First, it provided changes to the legal criteria used to assess and award claims by creating a legal presumption that miners are entitled to benefits if they have worked at least 15 years in underground coal mines, or in similar conditions, and suffer from a totally disabling lung disease. To rebut this presumption, a coal company would have to prove that a miner did not have black lung or that the disease was not caused by the miner's work. Second, it changed the law so black lung benefits will continue to be paid to dependent survivors when the miner passes away, regardless of the cause of the miner's death. The changes have increased the cost to us of complying with the Federal Black Lung Benefits Act. In addition to the federal legislation, we are also liable under various state statutes for our portion of black lung claims. Other State and Local Laws Related to Our Coal Business Ownership of Coal Rights . The Company acquires ownership or leasehold rights to coal properties prior to conducting operations on those properties. As is customary in the coal industry, we have generally conducted only a summary review of the title to coal rights that are not in our development plans, but which we believe we control. This summary review is conducted at the time of acquisition or as part of a review of our land records to determine control of coal rights. Given our experience as a coal producer, we believe we have a well developed ownership position relating to our coal control. Prior to the commencement of development operations on coal properties, we conduct a thorough title examination and perform curative work with respect to significant defects. We generally will not commence operations on a property until we have cured any material title defects on such property. We are typically responsible for the cost of curing any title defects. We have completed title work on substantially all of our coal producing properties and believe that we have satisfactory title to our producing properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the industry. Permits Environmental Proceedings . During the summer of 2014, certain environmental groups instituted litigation before the Pennsylvania Environmental Hearing Board ( EHB ), challenging certain longwall mining permitting at the Bailey Mine. Following a hearing in August 2016, the EHB issued a decision in August 2017 rejecting the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection's ( DEP ) requirement that CONSOL Pennsylvania Coal Company LLC install synthetic stream channel liner systems in a stream overlying a portion of the Bailey Mine. On September 4, 2017, the DEP provided notice that it required additional time to review the technical merits of a permit application for continued longwall mining within the 4L panel under Polen Run at the Bailey Mine. As a result, the longwall was idled at that time and workforce adjustments were made, pending further developments with the DEP and permit submission. This was the first time in the 35 year history of the Bailey Mine that a needed mining permit had not been received in a timely fashion. The longwall was moved and resumed operations the first week of October 2017. Our management implemented several measures to mitigate the production impact from this delay, including working additional unscheduled shifts as compared to the previous five and a half day schedule. Our management continued to take steps to mitigate the production impact from this delay and worked closely with the necessary agencies to obtain operating permits to allow for continuity of longwall mining operations. In November 2017, the DEP issued permitting authorizing revised longwall mining plans in the 5L Panel and longwall mining in Panels 6L through 8L. On March 21, 2018, Center for Coalfield Justice and Sierra Club (Appellants) appealed the application. On November 28, 2018 the Appellants withdrew their notice of appeal and the EHB marked the docket closed and discontinued. The Bailey East (L longwall panel area) is no longer in litigation. The Pennsylvania Mining Complex operates five total longwalls, with many of the approved permits as far out as ten years in advance. Employees At December 31, 2018, we had 1,772 employees, of which 28 CONSOL Marine Terminal employees were represented by a collective bargaining agreement. 27 Available Information We maintain a website at www. consolenergy .com. We will make available, free of charge, on this website our future annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are available, electronically filed with, or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), and are also available at the SEC website www.sec.gov. Apart from SEC filings, we also use our website to publish information which may be important to investors, such as presentations to analysts. 28 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10 K in evaluating us and our common stock. The risk factors generally have been separated into 3 groups risks related to our business, risks related to the separation and risks related to our common stock and the securities market. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations could be affected by various risks, many of which are beyond our control. Based on current information, we believe that the following list identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. There may be additional risks and uncertainties that adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in the future that are not presently known, are not currently believed to be material, or are not identified below because they are common to all businesses. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. For more information, see Forward Looking Statements. Risks Related to Our Business Deterioration in the global economic conditions in any of the industries in which our customers operate, or a worldwide financial downturn, or negative credit market conditions may have a materially adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations, cash flows, business and financial condition that we cannot predict. Economic conditions in a number of industries in which our customers operate, such as electric power generation and steelmaking, substantially deteriorated in recent years and reduced the demand for coal. Renewed or continued weakness in the economic conditions of any of the industries we serve or are served by our customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity in a number of ways. For example demand for electricity in the United States is impacted by industrial production, which if weakened would negatively impact the revenues, margins and profitability of our coal business; demand for metallurgical coal depends on steel demand in the United States and globally, which, if weakened, would negatively impact the revenues, margins and profitability of our metallurgical coal business including our ability to sell our thermal coal as higher priced high volatile metallurgical coal; the tightening of credit or lack of credit availability to our customers could adversely affect our ability to collect our trade receivables; our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital for our business including for exploration and or development of our coal reserves, or for strategic acquisitions of assets; and a decline in our credi2rthiness, which may require us to post letters of credit, cash collateral, or surety bonds to secure certain obligations, all of which would have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Prices for coal are volatile and can fluctuate widely based upon a number of factors beyond our control including oversupply relative to the demand available for our coal, weather and the price and availability of alternative fuels. A substantial or extended decline in the prices we receive for our coal will adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our financial results are significantly affected by the prices we receive for our coal and depend, in part, on the margins that we receive on sales of our coal. Our margins reflect the price we receive for our coal over our cost of producing and transporting our coal. Prices and quantities under our multi year sales contracts are generally based on expectations of future coal prices at the time the contract is entered into, renewed, extended or re opened. The expectation of future prices for coal depends upon many factors. In addition, demand can fluctuate widely due to a number of matters beyond our control, including the market price for coal; changes in the consumption pattern of industrial consumers, electricity generators and residential end users of electricity; weather conditions in our markets which affect the demand for thermal coal; competition from other coal suppliers; the price and availability of alternative fuels and sources for electricity generation, especially natural gas and renewable energy sources; with respect to thermal coal, the price and availability of natural gas and the price and supply of imported liquefied natural gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; the costs, availability and capacity of transportation infrastructure; overall domestic and global economic conditions, including the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal; 29 international developments impacting supply of metallurgical coal, including supply side reforms promulgated in China, and continued expected growth in demand for seaborne metallurgical coal in India; and the impact of domestic and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including environmental and climate change regulations and regulations affecting the coal mining industry and coal fired power plants, and delays in the receipt of, failure to receive, failure to maintain or revocation of necessary governmental permits. Any significant downtime of our major pieces of mining equipment, including our central preparation plant, or any inability to obtain equipment, parts and raw materials in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at reasonable costs, could impair our ability to supply coal to our customers and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on several major pieces of mining equipment to produce and transport our coal, including, but not limited to, longwall mining systems, continuous mining units, our preparation plant and related facilities, conveyors and transloading facilities. If any of these pieces of equipment or facilities suffered major damage or were destroyed by fire, abnormal wear, flooding, incorrect operation or otherwise, we may be unable to replace or repair them in a timely manner or at a reasonable cost, which would impact our ability to produce and transport coal and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We procure this equipment from a concentrated group of suppliers, and obtaining this equipment often involves long lead times. Occasionally, demand for such equipment by mining companies can be high and some types of equipment may be in short supply. Delays in receiving or shortages of this equipment or the cancellation of our supply contracts under which we obtain equipment could limit our ability to obtain these supplies or equipment. All of the coal from our mines is processed at a single preparation plant and loaded on to rail cars using a single train loadout facility. If either of our preparation plant or train loadout facility suffers extended downtime, including from major damage, or is destroyed, our ability to process and deliver coal to our customers would be materially impacted, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, coal mining consumes large quantities of commodities including steel, copper, rubber products and liquid fuels and requires the use of capital equipment. Some commodities, such as steel, are needed to comply with roof control plans required by regulation. The prices we pay for commodities and capital equipment are strongly impacted by the global market. A rapid or significant increase in the costs of commodities or capital equipment we use in our operations could impact our mining operations costs because we may have a limited ability to negotiate lower prices, and, in some cases, may not have a ready substitute. In addition, if any of our suppliers experiences an adverse event, or decides to no longer do business with us, we may be unable to obtain sufficient equipment and raw materials in a timely manner or at a reasonable price to allow us to meet our production goals and our revenues may be adversely impacted. We use considerable quantities of steel in the mining process. If the price of steel or other materials increases substantially or if the value of the U.S. dollar declines relative to foreign currencies with respect to certain imported supplies or other products, our operating expenses could increase. Any of the foregoing events could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If our coal customers do not extend existing contracts or do not enter into new multi year coal sales contracts on favorable terms, profitability of our operations could be adversely affected. During the year ended December 31, 2018, approximately 68% of the coal the Company produced was sold under multi year sales contracts. If a substantial portion of our multi year sales contracts are modified or terminated, if force majeure is exercised, or if we are unable to replace or extend the contracts or new contracts are priced at lower levels, our profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, if customers refuse to accept shipments of our coal for which they have existing contractual obligations, our revenues will decrease and we may have to reduce production at our mines until such customers honor their contractual obligations and begin accepting shipments of our coal again. The profitability of our multi year sales coal supply contracts depends on a variety of factors, which vary from contract to contract and fluctuate during the contract term, including our production costs and other factors. Price changes, if any, provided in long term supply contracts may not reflect our cost increases, and therefore, increases in our costs may reduce our profit margins. In addition, during periods of declining market prices, provisions in our long term coal contracts for adjustment or renegotiation of prices and other provisions may increase our exposure to short term coal price and electric power price volatility. As a result, we may not be able to obtain long term agreements at favorable prices compared to either market conditions, as they may change from time to time, or our cost structure, which may reduce our profitability. 30 The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest coal customers or the failure of any of our customers to buy and pay for coal they committed to purchase could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from 3 customers, each of which accounted for over 10% of our total coal sales revenue and aggregated approximately 57% of our coal sales in fiscal year 2018. There are inherent risks whenever a significant percentage of total revenues are concentrated with a limited number of customers. Revenues from our largest customers may fluctuate from time to time based on numerous factors, including market conditions, which may be outside of our control. If any of our largest customers experience declining revenues due to market, economic or competitive conditions, we could be pressured to reduce the prices that we charge for our coal, which could have an adverse effect on our margins, profitability, cash flows and financial position. If any customers were to significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, including by failing to buy and pay for coal they committed to purchase in sales contracts, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Additionally, our ability to collect payments from our customers for coal sold and delivered could be impaired if their credi2rthiness declines or if they fail to honor their contracts with us. If the credi2rthiness of our customers declines significantly, our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, if customers refuse to accept shipments of our coal for which they have an existing contractual obligation, our revenue will decrease and we may have to reduce production at our mines until our customers contractual obligations are honored. Our inability to collect payment from counterparties to our sales contracts may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our inability to acquire or develop additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable may have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. Our profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine, in a cost effective manner, coal reserves that possess the quality characteristics that our customers desire. Because our reserves decline as we mine our coal, our future profitability depends upon our ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable to replace the reserves we produce. If we fail to acquire or develop sufficient additional reserves over the long term to replace the reserves depleted by our production, our existing reserves will eventually be depleted, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Decreases in demand for electricity and changes in coal consumption patterns of U.S. electric power generators could adversely affect our business. Our business is closely linked to domestic demand for electricity, and any changes in coal consumption by U.S. electric power generators would likely impact our business over the long term. According to the EIA, in 2018, the domestic electric power sector accounted for approximately 92% of total U.S. coal consumption. In 2018, the Pennsylvania Mining Complex sold approximately 68% of its coal to U.S. electric power generators, and we have annual or multi year contracts in place with many of these electric power generators for a significant portion of our future production. The amount of coal consumed by the electric power generation industry is affected by, among other things general economic conditions, particularly those affecting industrial electric power demand, such as a downturn in the U.S. economy and financial markets; overall demand for electricity; indirect competition from alternative fuel sources for power generation, such as natural gas, fuel oil, nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar power, and the location, availability, quality and price of those alternative fuel sources; environmental and other governmental regulations, including those impacting coal fired power plants; and energy conservation efforts and related governmental policies. Changes in the coal industry that affect our customers, such as those caused by decreased electricity demand and increased competition, could also adversely affect our business. Indirect competition from natural gas fired plants that are relatively more efficient, less expensive to construct and less difficult to permit than coal fired plants has the most potential to displace a significant amount of coal fired electric power generation in the near term, particularly from older, less efficient coal fired powered generators. Federal and state mandates for increased use of electricity derived from renewable energy sources could affect demand for our coal. Such mandates, combined with other incentives to use renewable energy sources, such as tax credits, could make alternative fuel sources more competitive with coal. A decrease in coal consumption by the electric power generation industry could adversely affect the price of coal, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 31 Other factors, such as efficiency improvements associated with new appliance standards in the buildings sectors and overall improvement in the efficiency of technologies powered by electricity, have slowed electricity demand growth and may contribute to slower growth in the future. Further decreases in the demand for electricity, such as decreases that could be caused by a worsening of current economic conditions, a prolonged economic recession or other similar events, could have a material adverse effect on the demand for coal and on our business over the long term. The availability and reliability of transportation facilities and fluctuations in transportation costs could affect the demand for our coal, and any significant damage to the CONSOL Marine Terminal that impacts its use could impair our ability to supply coal to our customers. Transportation logistics play an important role in allowing us to supply coal to our customers. Any significant delays, interruptions or other limitations on the ability to transport our coal could negatively affect our operations. Our coal is transported from the Pennsylvania Mining Complex by rail, truck or a combination of these methods. To reach markets and end customers, our coal may also be transported by barge or by ocean vessels loaded at terminals, including our CONSOL Marine Terminal. Disruption of transportation services because of weather related problems, strikes, lock outs, terrorism, governmental regulation, third party action or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to customers and adversely affect our profitability. In addition, transportation costs represent a significant portion of the delivered cost of coal and, as a result, the cost of delivery is a critical factor in a customer purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs, including increases resulting from emission control requirements and fluctuation in the price of diesel fuel and demurrage, could make our coal less competitive. Any disruption of the transportation services we use or increase in transportation costs could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Disruption in shipment levels over longer periods of time at the CONSOL Marine Terminal could cause our customers to look to other sources for their coal needs, negatively affecting our revenues and results of operations. Competition within the coal industry may adversely affect our ability to sell coal. Increased competition or a loss of our competitive position could adversely affect our sales of, or our prices for, our coal, which could impair our profitability. In addition, foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal abroad. We compete with other producers primarily on the basis of price, coal quality, transportation costs and reliability of delivery. We compete with coal producers in various regions of the United States and with some foreign coal producers for domestic sales primarily to electric power generators. We also compete with both domestic and foreign coal producers for sales in international markets. Demand for our coal by our principal customers is affected by the delivered price of competing coals, other fuel supplies and alternative generating sources, including nuclear, natural gas, oil and renewable energy sources, such as hydroelectric, wind and solar power. We sell coal to foreign electricity generators and to the more specialized metallurgical coal market, both of which are significantly affected by international demand and competition. The coal industry has experienced consolidation in recent years, including consolidation among some of our major competitors. As a result, a substantial portion of coal production is from companies that have significantly greater resources than we do. Current or further consolidation in the coal industry or current or future bankruptcy proceedings of coal competitors may adversely affect us. In addition, increases in coal prices could encourage existing producers to expand capacity or could encourage new producers to enter the market. If overcapacity results, the prices of and demand for our coal could significantly decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we face competition from foreign producers that sell their coal in the export market. Potential changes to international trade agreements, trade concessions or other political and economic arrangements may benefit coal producers operating in countries other than the United States. We may be adversely impacted on the basis of price or other factors with companies that in the future may benefit from favorable foreign trade policies or other arrangements. In addition, coal is sold internationally in U.S. dollars and, as a result, general economic conditions in foreign markets and changes in foreign currency exchange rates may provide our foreign competitors with a competitive advantage. If our competitors currencies decline against the U.S. dollar or against our foreign customers local currencies, those competitors may be able to offer lower prices for coal to our customers. Furthermore, if the currencies of our overseas customers were to significantly decline in value in comparison to the U.S. dollar, those customers may seek decreased prices for the coal we sell to them. Consequently, currency fluctuations could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal in international markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 32 The characteristics of coal may make it costly for electric power generators and other coal users to comply with various environmental standards regarding the emissions of impurities released when coal is burned which could cause utilities to replace coal fired power plants with alternative fuels. Coal contains impurities, including sulfur, mercury, chlorine and other elements or compounds, many of which are released into the air along with fine particulate matter and carbon dioxide when it is burned. Complying with regulations on these emissions can be costly for electric power generators. For example, in order to meet the federal Clean Air Act limits for sulfur dioxide emissions from electric power plants, coal users needed to install scrubbers, used sulfur dioxide emission allowances (some of which they may purchase) or switched to other fuels, each of which options has limitations. Because higher sulfur coal currently accounts for a significant portion of our sales, the extent to which electric power generators switch to alternative fuel could materially affect us. Recent EPA rulemaking proceedings requiring additional reductions in permissible emission levels of impurities by coal fired plants will likely make it more costly to operate coal fired electric power plants and may make coal a less attractive fuel alternative for electric power generation in the future. Examples are (i) implementation of the Cross State Air Pollution Rule to require reductions of seasonal nitrogen oxides emissions from power plants in the eastern United States to address oz1 pollution; and (ii) the MATS Rule, better known as the Mercury and Air Toxics Standard rule, which included more stringent new source performance standards for particulate matter, mercury, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, for new coal fired power plants. The rule was rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court on June 29, 2015 and sent back to the D.C. Circuit Court to determine whether to remand and allow the EPA to address the rule deficiencies or to vacate and nullify the rule; nevertheless, most coal fired electric power generators have already taken steps to comply with the rule. On April 18, 2017, the EPA asked the Court to delay arguments over MATS to allow the Trump Administration time to fully review the findings. On April 21, 2017, the Court granted the requested stay. On December 28, 2018, the EPA proposed to revise the 2016 supplemental cost finding for the MATS Rule, as well as the related risk and technology review required by the CAA. Under the proposal, the emissions standards and other requirements of the MATS Rule would remain in place while the EPA's methodology for assessing the costs and benefits of the rule were being modified. Regulation to address climate change (particularly greenhouse gas emissions) and uncertainty regarding such regulation may increase our operating costs and reduce the value of our coal assets. The issue of global climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention with widespread concern about the impacts of human activity (especially the emissions of GHGs such as carbon dioxide and methane). Combustion of fossil fuels, such as the coal we produce, results in the emission of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere by coal end users, such as coal fired electric power generation plants. While climate change legislation in the U.S. is unlikely in the next several years, numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government that are intended to limit emissions of GHGs. Several states have already adopted measures requiring reduction of GHGs within state boundaries. Other states have elected to participate in voluntary regional cap and trade programs like the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative in the northeastern U.S. Any significant legislative changes at the international, national, state or local levels could significantly affect our ability to produce and sell our coal and develop our reserves, could increase the cost of the production and sale of coal and could materially reduce the value of our coal and coal reserves. Apart from governmental regulation, investment banks based both domestically and internationally have announced that they have adopted climate change guidelines for lenders. The guidelines require the evaluation of carbon risks in the financing of electric power generation plants which may make it more difficult for utilities to obtain financing for coal fired plants. In addition, there have also been efforts in recent years affecting the investment community, including investment advisers, sovereign wealth funds, public pension funds, universities and other groups, promoting the divestment of fossil fuel equities, encouraging the consideration of environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices of companies in a manner that negatively affects coal companies, and also pressuring lenders to limit funding to companies engaged in the extraction of fossil fuel reserves. The impact of such efforts may adversely affect the demand for and price of securities issued by us, and impact our access to the capital and financial markets. These efforts, as well as concerted conservation and efficiency efforts that result in reduced electricity consumption, and consumer and corporate preferences for non coal fuel sources, including natural gas and or alternative energy sources, could cause coal prices and sales of our coal to materially decline and could cause our costs to increase. Further, climate change itself may cause more extreme weather conditions such as more intense hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornadoes and snow or ice storms, as well as rising sea levels and increased volatility in seasonal temperatures. Extreme weather conditions can interfere with our services and increase our costs, and damage resulting from extreme weather may not be fully insured. However, at this time, we are unable to determine the extent to which climate change may lead to increased storm or weather hazards affecting our operations. 33 Regulation to address climate change and uncertainty regarding such regulation could adversely impact the market for coal. Adoption of comprehensive legislation or regulation focusing on climate change or GHG emission reductions for the United States or other countries where we sell coal, or the inability of utilities to obtain financing in connection with coal fired plants, may make it more costly to operate fossil fuel fired (especially coal fired) electric power generation plants and make fossil fuels less attractive for electric utility power plants in the future. Depending on the nature of the regulation or legislation, natural gas fueled power generation could become more economically attractive than coal fueled power generation, especially if such regulation or legislation makes our coal more expensive as a result of increased compliance, operating and maintenance costs. Apart from actual regulation, uncertainty over the extent of regulation of GHG emissions may inhibit utilities from investing in the building of new coal fired plants to replace older plants or investing in the upgrading of existing coal fired plants. Any reduction or substantial delay in the amount of coal consumed by domestic electric power generators as a result of actual or potential regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could decrease demand for our fossil fuels, thereby reducing our revenues and materially and adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Our customers may also have to invest in carbon dioxide capture and storage technologies in order to burn coal and comply with future GHG emission standards. However, we cannot predict the ultimate impact any legislation or regulation may have on our future financial condition and results of operations because of the inherent uncertainty in the outcome of the political and legal policy making process in this area. Nevertheless, in general, it is likely that any future laws, regulations or other policies aimed at reducing GHG emissions will negatively impact demand for our coal and could also negatively affect the value of our reserves and other assets. We may be subject to litigation seeking to hold energy companies accountable for the effects of climate change. Increasing attention to climate change risk has also resulted in a recent trend of governmental investigations and private litigation by local and state governmental agencies as well as private plaintiffs in an effort to hold energy companies accountable for the effects of climate change. Other public nuisance lawsuits have been brought in the past against power, coal, oil and gas companies alleging that their operations are contributing to climate change. The plaintiffs in these suits sought various remedies, including punitive and compensatory damages and injunctive relief. While the U.S. Supreme Court held that federal common law provided no basis for public nuisance claims against the defendants in those cases, tort type liabilities remain a possibility and a source of concern. For instance, we have been named as a defendant in litigation brought by the City of Baltimore seeking to hold us and other energy companies liable for the effects of climate change caused by the release of GHGs. The outcome of this litigation is uncertain, and we could incur substantial legal costs associated with defending this and similar lawsuits in the future. Government entities in other states (including California and New York) have brought similar claims seeking to hold a wide variety of companies that produce fossil fuels liable for the alleged impacts of the GHG emissions attributable to those fuels. Those lawsuits allege damages as a result of climate change and the plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages and abatement under various tort theories. We have not been made a party to these other suits, but it is possible that we could be included in similar future lawsuits initiated by state and local governments as well as private claimants. Existing and future government laws, regulations and other legal requirements relating to protection of the environment, and others that govern our business may increase our costs of doing business for coal and may restrict our coal operations. We are subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local authorities, as well as foreign authorities relating to protection of the environment. These include those legal requirements that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, threatened and endangered plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the installation of various safety equipment in our mines, remediation of impacts of surface subsidence from underground mining, and work practices related to employee health and safety. Complying with these requirements, including the terms of our permits, has had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our costs of operations and competitive position. In addition, there is the possibility that we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations under environmental laws. Any additional laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local authorities, as well as foreign authorities or new interpretations of existing legal requirements by regulatory bodies relating to the protection of the environment could further affect our costs of operations and competitive position. At CONSOL Energy's subsidiary Fola Coal Company, LLC ( Fola ), nine citizen suits have been filed challenging water discharge permits. Fola retained liability for six of these suits, and was indemnified from the remaining 3 suits in accordance with the 2016 sale of Fola's assets to Southeastern Land, LLC. Of the six suits retained by Fola, 1 was dismissed, 2 were settled, and a federal court has issued liability rulings in the 3 remaining suits. Fola expects that any financial liability arising from these suits will not have a material impact on its, or the Company s, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 34 Our business involves many hazards and operating risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event that is not fully insured could curtail our operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our coal mining operations are underground mines. Underground mining and related processing activities present inherent risks of injury or death to persons, damage to property and equipment and other potential legal or other liabilities. Our mines are subject to a number of operating risks that could disrupt operations, decrease production and increase the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. In addition, if an operating risk occurs in our mining operations, we may not be able to produce sufficient amounts of coal to deliver under our multi year coal contracts. Our inability to satisfy contractual obligations could result in our customers initiating claims against us or canceling their contracts. The operating risks that may have a significant impact on our coal operations include variations in thickness of the layer, or seam, of coal; adverse geological conditions, including amounts of rock and other natural materials intruding into the coal seam that could affect the stability of the roof and the side walls of the mine for example, unit costs were negatively impacted in 2017 and 2016 due to adverse geological conditions at the Enlow Fork Mine, primarily related to sandst1 intrusions, which resulted in reduced coal production at that mine; environmental hazards; equipment failures or unexpected maintenance problems; fires or explosions, including as a result of methane, coal, coal dust or other explosive materials and or other accidents; inclement or hazardous weather conditions and natural disasters or other force majeure events; seismic activities, ground failures, rock bursts or structural cave ins or slides; delays in moving our longwall equipment; railroad derailments; security breaches or terroristic acts; and other hazards that could also result in personal injury and loss of life, pollution and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any of these risks at our coal mining operations could adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations or result in substantial loss to us, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the occurrence of any of these events in our coal mining operations which prevents our delivery of coal to a customer and which is not excusable as a force majeure event under our coal sales agreement, could result in economic penalties, suspension or cancellation of shipments or ultimately termination of the coal sales agreement, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although we maintain insurance for a number of risks and hazards, we may not be insured or fully insured against the losses or liabilities that could arise from a significant accident in our coal operations. We may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Moreover, a significant mine accident could potentially cause a mine shutdown. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. All of our mines are part of a single mining complex and are exclusively located in the Northern Appalachian Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a single geographic area. All of our mining operations are conducted at a single mining complex located in the Northern Appalachian Basin in southwestern Pennsylvania and northern West Virginia. The geographic concentration of our operations at the Pennsylvania Mining Complex may disproportionately expose us to disruptions in our operations if the region experiences adverse conditions or events, including severe weather, transportation capacity constraints, constraints on the availability of required equipment, facilities, personnel or services, significant governmental regulation or natural disasters. If any of these factors were to impact the Northern Appalachian Basin more than other coal producing regions, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected relative to other mining companies that have a more geographically diversified asset portfolio. Our mines are located in areas containing oil and natural gas shale plays, which may require us to coordinate our operations with oil and natural gas drillers and transporters. All of our coal reserves are in areas containing shale oil and natural gas plays, including the Marcellus Shale, which are currently the subject of substantial exploration for oil and natural gas, particularly by horizontal drilling. If we have received a permit for our mining activities, then while we may have to coordinate our mining with such oil and natural gas drillers and transporters, our mining activities will have priority over any oil and natural gas drillers and transporters with respect to the land covered by our 35 permit. Oil and natural gas drillers and transporters may be subject to law and regulations that are enforced by regulators that do not have jurisdiction over our activities. Any conflict between our rights and the enforcement actions by any regulator of oil or natural gas specific rights that conflict with our rights to mine could result in additional costs and possible delays to mining. For reserves outside of our permits, we engage in discussions with drilling and transport companies on potential areas on which they can drill that may have a minimal effect on our mine plan. If a well is in the path of our mining for coal on land that has not yet been permitted for our mining activities, we may not be able to mine through the well unless we purchase it. Although in the past we have purchased vertical wells, the cost of purchasing a producing horizontal well could be substantially greater than that of a vertical well. Horizontal wells with multiple laterals extending from the well pad may access larger oil and natural gas reserves than a vertical well, which would typically result in a higher cost to acquire. The cost associated with purchasing oil and natural gas wells that are in the path of our coal mining activities could likewise make mining through those wells uneconomical, thereby effectively causing a loss of significant portions of our coal reserves, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. To maintain and grow our business, we will be required to make substantial capital expenditures. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, our financial leverage could increase. In order to maintain and grow our business, we will need to make substantial capital expenditures to fund our share of capital expenditures associated with our mines. Maintaining and expanding mines and infrastructure is capital intensive. Specifically, the exploration, permitting and development of coal reserves, mining costs, the maintenance of machinery and equipment and compliance with applicable laws and regulations require substantial capital expenditures. While a significant amount of the capital expenditures required to build out our mining infrastructure has been spent, we must continue to invest capital to maintain or to increase our production. Decisions to increase our production levels could also affect our capital needs. Our production levels may decrease or may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow, or we may not have access to sufficient financing to continue our production, exploration, permitting and development activities at or above our present levels, and we may be required to defer all or a portion of our capital expenditures. If we do not make sufficient or effective capital expenditures, we will be unable to maintain and grow our business. To fund our capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from our operations, incur debt or sell additional equity securities. Our ability to obtain bank financing or our ability to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by general economic conditions, contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant stockholder dilution. New tariffs and other trade measures could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. New tariffs and other trade measures could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Recently, the Trump Administration imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum and a broad range of other products imported into the U.S. In response to the tariffs imposed by the U.S., the European Union, Canada, Mexico and China have announced tariffs on U.S. goods and services. The new tariffs, along with any additional tariffs or trade restrictions that may be implemented by the U.S. or retaliatory trade measures or tariffs implemented by other countries, could result in reduced economic activity, increased costs in operating our business, reduced demand and changes in purchasing behaviors for thermal and metallurgical coal, limits on trade with the United States or other potentially adverse economic outcomes. Additionally, we sell coal into the export thermal market and the export metallurgical market. Accordingly, our international sales may also be impacted by the tariffs and other restrictions on trade between the U.S. and other countries. While tariffs and other retaliatory trade measures imposed by other countries on U.S. goods have not yet had a significant impact on our business or results of operations, we cannot predict further developments, and such existing or future tariffs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We may be unsuccessful in finding suitable acquisition targets or integrating the operations of any future acquisitions, including acquisitions involving new lines of business, with our existing operations, and in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions. From time to time, we may evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and business. However, our ability to grow our business through acquisitions may be limited by both our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates and our financial resources, including our available cash and borrowing capacity. Additionally, the assets and businesses we acquire may be dissimilar from our existing lines of business. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. Our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly as a result of future acquisitions. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including the following 36 difficulties in the integration of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses; inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas; the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk; and the diversion of management's attention from other operating issues. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. Also, following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business or assets for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. If a new business generates insufficient revenue or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We must obtain, maintain and renew governmental permits and approvals which, if we cannot obtain in a timely manner, would reduce our production, cash flow and results of operations. Our coal production is dependent on our ability to obtain various federal and state permits and approvals to mine our coal reserves. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex, change frequently and are often subject to discretionary interpretations by regulators. The EPA also has the authority to veto permits issued by the Army Corps of Engineers under the Clean Water Act Section 404 program that prohibits the discharge of dredged or fill material into regulated waters without a permit. In addition, the public, including non governmental organizations and individuals, have certain statutory rights to comment upon and otherwise impact the permitting process, including through court intervention. The slow pace with which the government issues permits needed for new operations and or for on going operations to continue mining continues to have significant negative effects and could materially and adversely affect our business. Our mines are subject to stringent federal and state safety regulations that increase our cost of doing business at active operations and may place restrictions on our methods of operation. In addition, government inspectors, under certain circumstances, have the ability to order our operations to be shutdown based on safety considerations. The Federal Coal Mine Safety and Health Act and Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act impose stringent health and safety standards on mining operations. Regulations that have been adopted are comprehensive and affect numerous aspects of mining operations, including training of mine personnel, mining procedures, the equipment used in mine emergency procedures and other matters. States in which we operate have programs for mine safety and health regulation and enforcement. The various requirements mandated by law or regulation can place restrictions on our methods of operations, and potentially lead to penalties for the violation of such requirements, creating a significant effect on operating costs and productivity. In addition, government inspectors under certain circumstances, have the ability to order our operation to be shutdown based on safety considerations. If an incident were to occur at 1 of our coal mines, it could be shut down for an extended period of time and our reputation with our customers could be materially damaged. Our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in liabilities to us. Our operations currently use hazardous materials and generate limited quantities of hazardous wastes from time to time. Drainage flowing from or caused by mining activities can be acidic with elevated levels of dissolved metals, a condition referred to as acid mine drainage. We could become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages, as well as for the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, groundwater and other media. Such claims may arise, for example, out of conditions at sites that we currently own or operate, as well as at sites that we previously owned or operated, or may acquire. Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or for the entire share. We maintain coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments at the Pennsylvania Mining Complex. Such areas and impoundments are subject to extensive regulation. Structural failure of a slurry impoundment or coal refuse area could result in extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, such as bodies of water that the coal slurry reaches, as well as liability for related personal injuries and property damages, and injuries to wildlife. Some of our impoundments overlie mined out areas, which can pose a heightened risk of failure and of damages arising out of failure. If 1 of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties. Our coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments are designed, constructed, and inspected by our company and by regulatory authorities according to stringent environmental and safety standards. 37 These and other similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could adversely affect us. We have reclamation, mine closing obligations and gas well plugging obligations. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act as well as various state laws establish operational, reclamation and closure standards for all our coal mining operations and require us, under certain circumstances, to plug natural gas wells. We accrue for the costs of current mine disturbance, gas well plugging and of final mine closure, including the cost of treating mine water discharge where necessary. Estimates of our total reclamation, mine closing and degasification and well plugging liabilities, which are based upon permit requirements and our experience, were approximately $267 million at December 31, 2018. The amounts recorded are dependent upon a number of variables, including the estimated future closure costs, estimated proved reserves, assumptions involving profit margins, inflation rates, and the assumed credit adjusted risk free interest rates. If these accruals are insufficient or our liability in a particular year is greater than currently anticipated, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Most states where we operate and or have non operating mines require us to post bonds for the full cost of coal mine reclamation ( full cost bonding ). West Virginia is not a full cost bonding state. West Virginia has an alternative bond system for coal mine reclamation which consists of (i) individual site bonds posted by the permittee that are less than the full estimated reclamation cost plus (ii) a bond pool ( Special Reclamation Fund ) funded by a per ton fee on coal mined in the State which is used to supplement the site specific bonds if needed in the event of bond forfeiture. However, West Virginia may move to full cost bonding in the future which could cause individual mining companies and or surety companies to exceed bonding capacity and would result in the need to post cash bonds or letters of credit which would reduce operating capital. Pennsylvania is expanding its full cost bonding program to cover all coal mine bonding, further increasing the amount of surety bonds we must seek in order to permit our mining activities. We have been able to post surety bonds with the states to secure our reclamation obligations. However, the costs of surety bonds have fluctuated in recent years and the market terms of such bonds have generally become more unfavorable to mine operators. These changes in the terms of the bonds have been accompanied at times by a decrease in the number of companies willing to issue surety bonds. In addition, federal and state regulators are considering making financial assurance requirements with respect to mine closure and reclamation more stringent. If our credi2rthiness declines, states may seek to require us to post letters of credit or cash collateral to secure those obligations, or we may be unable to obtain surety bonds, in which case we would be required to post letters of credit. Additionally, the sureties that post bonds on our behalf may require us to post security in order to secure the obligations underlying these bonds. Posting letters of credit in place of surety bonds or posting security to support these surety bonds would have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Furthermore, because we are required by state and federal law to have these bonds in place before mining can commence or continue, our failure to maintain surety bonds, letters of credit or other guarantees or security arrangements would materially and adversely affect our ability to mine coal. That failure could result from a variety of factors, including lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms, the exercise by third party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the surety and restrictions on availability of collateral for current and future third party surety bond issuers under the terms of our financing arrangements. We face uncertainties in estimating our economically recoverable coal reserves, and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs and decreased profitability. Coal reserves are economically recoverable when the price at which they are expected to be sold exceeds their expected cost of production and selling. Forecasts of our future performance are based on, among other things, estimates of our recoverable coal reserves. We base our coal reserve information on geologic data, coal ownership information and current and proposed mine plans. These estimates are periodically updated to reflect past coal production, new drilling information and other geologic or mining data. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of economically recoverable coal reserves, including many factors beyond our control. As a result, estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves are by their nature uncertain. Information about our reserves consists of estimates based on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff. Some of the factors and assumptions which impact economically recoverable coal reserve estimates include geologic and mining conditions; historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the assumed effects of regulations and taxes by governmental agencies; our ability to obtain, maintain and renew all required permits; future improvements in mining technology; assumptions governing future prices; and 38 future operating costs, including the cost of materials and capital expenditures. In addition, we hold substantial coal reserves in areas containing Marcellus Shale and other shales. These areas are currently the subject of substantial exploration for oil and natural gas, particularly by horizontal drilling. If a natural gas well is in the path of our mining for coal, we may not be able to mine through the well unless we purchase it. Although in the past we have purchased vertical wells, the cost of purchasing a producing horizontal well could be substantially greater. Horizontal wells with multiple laterals extending from the well pad may access larger natural gas reserves than a vertical well which could result in higher costs. In future years, the cost associated with purchasing natural gas wells which are in the path of our coal mining may make mining through those wells uneconomical, thereby effectively causing a loss of significant portions of our coal reserves. Each of the factors which impacts reserve estimation may vary considerably from the assumptions used in estimating the reserves. For these reasons, estimates of coal reserves may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our coal reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variances may be material. As a result, our estimates may not accurately reflect our actual coal reserves. Additionally, our estimates of coal reserves may be adversely affected in future fiscal periods by the SEC's recent rule amendments revising property disclosure requirements for publicly traded mining companies. We will be required to comply with these new rules in 2021 Defects may exist in our chain of title for our undeveloped coal reserves where we have not d1 a thorough chain of title examination of our undeveloped coal reserves. We may incur additional costs and delays to mine coal because we have to acquire additional property rights to perfect our title to coal rights. If we fail to acquire additional property rights to perfect our title to coal rights, we may have to reduce our estimated reserves. Title to most of our owned or leased properties and mineral rights is not usually verified until we make a commitment to mine a property, which may not occur until after we have obtained necessary permits and completed exploration of the property. In some cases, we rely on title information or representations and warranties provided by our lessors or grantors. Our right to mine certain of our reserves has in the past been, and may again in the future be, adversely affected if defects in title, boundaries or other rights necessary for mining exist or if a lease expires. Any challenge to our title or leasehold interests could delay the mining of the property and could ultimately result in the loss of some or all of our interest in the property. From time to time, we also may be in default with respect to leases for properties on which we have mining operations. In such events, we may have to close down or significantly alter the sequence of such mining operations which may adversely affect our future coal production and future revenues. If we mine on property that we do not own or lease, we could incur liability for such mining and be subject to regulatory sanction and penalties. In order to obtain, maintain or renew leases or mining contracts to conduct our mining operations on property where these defects exist, we may in the future have to incur unanticipated costs. In addition, we may not be able to successfully negotiate new leases or mining contracts for properties containing additional reserves, or maintain our leasehold interests in properties where we have not commenced mining operations during the term of the lease. As a result, our results of operations, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We have obligations for long term employee benefits for which we accrue based upon assumptions which, if inaccurate, could result in our being required to expense greater amounts than anticipated. We provide various long term employee benefits to inactive and retired employees. We accrue amounts for these obligations. At December 31, 2018, the current and non current portions of these obligations included postretirement medical and life insurance ($474 million); coal workers pneumoconiosis benefits ($177 million); pension benefits ($66 million); and workers compensation ($71 million). However, if our assumptions are inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. Salary retirement benefits are funded in accordance with Employer Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) regulations. The other obligations are unfunded. In addition, the federal government and several states in which we operate consider changes in workers compensation and black lung laws from time to time. Such changes, if enacted, could increase our benefit expense and our collateral requirements. Additionally, former miners and their family members asserting claims for pneumoconiosis benefits have generally been more successful asserting such claims in recent years as a result of the presumption within The PPACA of 2010 that a coal miner with 15 or more years of underground coal mining experience (or the equivalent) who develops a respiratory condition and meets the requirements for total disability under the Federal Act is presumed to be disabled due to coal dust exposure, thereby shifting the burden of proof from the employee to the employer insurer to establish that this disability is not due to coal dust. The 39 increasing success rate of such claims based upon the PPACA changed presumption and, as a result, the increasing expense incurred by us to insure against such claims, could increase our expenses for long term employee benefit obligations. The provisions of our debt agreements and the risks associated with our debt could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. As of December 31, 2018, our total long term indebtedness was approximately $892 million, of which approximately $274 million was under our 1100% senior secured notes due 2025, $103 million was under our Maryland Economic Development Corporation Port Facilities Refunding Revenue Bonds ( MEDCO ) 5.75% revenue bonds due September 2025, $74 million was under our Term Loan A Facility, $396 million was under our Term Loan B Facility, $43 million of capitalized leases due through 2021, and $2 million of miscellaneous debt. At December 31, 2018, no borrowings were outstanding under our $300 million revolving credit facility or our $100 million accounts receivable securitization facility. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including, but not limited to increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal due under our outstanding debt, which will limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, share buy back programs, acquisitions, pay dividends, development of our coal reserves or other general corporate requirements; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the coal industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with lower leverage and better access to capital resources; and limiting our ability to implement our business strategy. Our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing our 1100% senior secured notes limit the incurrence of additional indebtedness unless specified tests or exceptions are met. In addition, our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing our 1100% senior secured notes subject us to financial and or other restrictive covenants. Under our senior secured credit agreement, we must comply with certain financial covenants on a quarterly basis including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, as defined therein. Our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing our 1100% senior secured notes impose a number of restrictions upon us, such as restrictions on granting liens on our assets, making investments, paying dividends, stock repurchases, selling assets and engaging in acquisitions. Failure by us to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing our 1100% senior secured notes restrict our ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from the sales. We may not be able to consummate those sales or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business. We have exposure to increases in interest rates. Based on our current variable debt level of $464 million as of December 31, 2018, comprised of funds drawn on our Term Loan A and Term Loan B Facilities, an increase of 1 percentage point in the interest rate will result in an increase in annual interest expense of $5 million. As a result, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or cause us to lose m1y. We may enter into hedging arrangements in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate volatility. These hedging arrangements may reduce, but will not eliminate, the potential effects of changing interest rates on our cash flow from operations for the periods covered by these arrangements. Furthermore, while intended to help reduce the effects of volatile interest rates, such transactions, depending on the hedging instrument used, may limit our potential gains if interest rates were to fall substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, these arrangements expose us to risks of financial loss in a variety of circumstances, including when a counterparty is unable to satisfy its obligations; or 40 there is an adverse change in the expected differential between the underlying interest rate in the derivative instrument and actual interest rates. However, it is not always possible for us to engage in a derivative transaction that completely mitigates our exposure to interest rates. Furthermore, our price hedging strategy and future hedging transactions will be determined at the discretion of management, whose decisions may not always be in our best interest. Our financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to interest rates for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge transaction. We have entered into an affiliated company credit agreement with CONSOL Coal Resources LP and we may need to secure additional financing for our own operations. We have entered into an affiliated company credit agreement with CONSOL Coal Resources LP (the Affiliated Company Credit Agreement ) pursuant to which we, as lender, will provide for CCR a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $275 million. In funding the Affiliated Company Credit Agreement, we have less cash flow available to support our operations and other activities. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows in the future to support our operations and service our debt as a result of funding the Affiliated Company Credit Agreement, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or to obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that any refinancing will be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. The inability to service or refinance our existing debt or to obtain additional financing would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Furthermore, because we finance CCR operations through the Affiliated Company Credit Agreement and because that credit agreement contains covenants that may prevent CCR from acquiring additional indebtedness, CCR may be unable to finance the acquisition of any assets we wish to drop down to it which could materially impact our financial condition and cash flows. A failure by certain third parties to perform liabilities acquired by such third parties from our former parent could require us to indemnify it for those liabilities. Prior to the separation, our former parent entered into arrangements with 1 or more third parties pursuant to which such third parties acquired certain of its liabilities in connection with the sale of certain assets to such third parties. Such liabilities include certain postemployment benefits and payment obligations, performance guarantees, and obligations under certain equipment leases and subleases. Such third parties are primarily liable for these obligations; however, our former parent agreed to be secondarily liable for these obligations. As part of the separation, we agreed to indemnify our former parent for these obligations. If such third parties fail to satisfy such assumed liabilities, we could be forced to indemnify our former parent for such liabilities, and such indemnification obligations could be substantial. Terrorist attacks or cyber incidents could result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and or financial loss. We have become increasingly dependent upon digital technologies, including information systems, infrastructure and cloud applications and services, to operate our businesses, to process and record financial and operating data, communicate with our employees and business partners, estimate quantities of coal reserves, as well as other activities related to our businesses. Strategic targets, such as energy related assets, may be at greater risk of future terrorist or cyber attacks than other targets in the United States. Deliberate attacks on our assets, or security breaches in our systems or infrastructure, or the systems or infrastructure of third parties, or cloud based applications could lead to corruption or loss of our proprietary data and potentially sensitive data, delays in production or delivery, difficulty in completing and settling transactions, challenges in maintaining our books and records, environmental damage, communication interruptions, other operational disruptions and third party liability. Our insurance may not protect us against such occurrences. Consequently, it is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, as cyber incidents continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents. Certain provisions in our multi year coal sales contracts may provide limited protection during adverse economic conditions, may result in economic penalties to us or permit the customer to terminate the contract. Price adjustment, price reopener and other similar provisions in our multi year coal sales contracts may reduce the protection from coal price volatility traditionally provided by coal supply contracts. Price reopener provisions are present in several of our multi year coal sales contracts. These price reopener provisions may automatically set a new price based on prevailing market price or, in some instances, require the parties to agree on a new price, sometimes within a specified range of prices. In a limited number of agreements, failure of the parties to agree on a price under a price reopener provision can lead to termination of the contract. Any adjustment or renegotiations leading to a significantly lower contract price could adversely affect our profitability. 41 Most of our coal sales agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal within certain ranges for specific coal quality characteristics such as heat content, sulfur, ash, moisture, volatile matter, grindability, ash fusion temperature and size consist. Failure to meet these conditions could result in penalties or rejection of the coal at the election of the customer. Our coal sales contracts also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing for the suspension of performance by either party for the duration of specified events. Force majeure events include, but are not limited to, floods, earthquakes, storms, fire, faults in the coal seam or other geologic conditions, other natural catastrophes, wars, terrorist acts, civil disturbances or disobedience, strikes, railroad transportation delays caused by a force majeure event and actions or restraints by court order and governmental authority or arbitration award. Depending on the language of the contract, some contracts may terminate upon continuance of an event of force majeure that extends for a period greater than 3 to twelve months and some contracts may obligate us to perform notwithstanding what would typically be a force majeure event. Our ability to operate our business effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain skilled personnel, or if a meaningful segment of our employees become unionized. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies depends, in part, on our continued ability to attract and retain the skilled personnel necessary to conduct our business. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled employees in multiple disciplines such as electricians, equipment operators, mechanics, engineers and welders, among others. Although we have not historically encountered shortages for these types of skilled employees, competition in the future may increase for such positions, especially as it relates to needs of other industries with respect to these positions, including oil and gas. If we experience shortages of skilled employees in the future, our labor and overall productivity or costs could be materially adversely affected. In the future, we may utilize a greater number of external contractors for portions of our operations. The costs of these contractors have historically been higher than that of our employees. If our labor and contractor prices increase, or if we experience materially increased health and benefit costs with respect to our employees, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Except for 28 of our employees at the CONSOL Marine Terminal who unionized in 2018, n1 of our employees are currently represented by a labor union or covered under a collective bargaining agreement, although many employers in our industry have employees who belong to a union. It is possible that our employees who conduct mining operations at the Pennsylvania Mining Complex may join or seek recognition to form a labor union, or we may be required to become a labor agreement signatory. If some or all of our current non union operations were to become unionized, we could incur an increased risk of work stoppages, reduced productivity and higher labor costs. Also, if we fail to maintain good relations with our employees at the CONSOL Marine Terminal, we could potentially experience labor disputes, work stoppages or other disruptions in the business of the CONSOL Marine Terminal, which could negatively impact the profitability of the CONSOL Marine Terminal. The majority of our common units in CONSOL Coal Resources LP are subordinated to other common units and we may not receive distributions from CONSOL Coal Resources LP. As of December 31, 2018, we held approximately 116 million subordinated units and 5.2 million common units (representing, collectively, a 60.0% percent limited partnership interest) in CCR. The balance of our economic interest in CCR is in the form of incentive distribution rights, which represent a right to receive increasing percentages of quarterly distributions in excess of specified amounts. Subordinated units are not entitled to any distribution from CCR unless CCR makes a minimum quarterly distribution of at least $0.5125 per common unit. CCR made minimum distributions per subordinated unit equal to the distribution per common unit for thirteen of the fourteen quarters since CCR IPO; CCR did not meet the requirement for a subordinated unit distribution with respect to fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2016. We cannot assure you that CCR will continue to be able to make or will make the required minimum quarterly distribution on its common units or that we will receive any future distributions on our subordinated units. Failure by CCR to make distributions to us on our subordinated units could adversely affect our liquidity. If we do not maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, we could fail to accurately report our financial results. During the course of the preparation of our financial statements, we evaluate our internal controls to identify and correct deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, including satisfaction of the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. As a result, the financial condition of our business could be adversely affected, current and potential future stockholders could lose confidence in us and or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock, and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. 42 Risks Related to the Separation The terms of our separation from our former parent and the related agreements and other transactions with our former parent were determined by our former parent and thus may be less favorable to us than the terms we could have obtained from an unaffiliated third party. In connection with the separation and distribution, we entered into various agreements and amended certain of the existing agreements in place between our former parent and CCR to complete the separation of our business from our former parent and govern our ongoing relationships, including, among others, a separation and distribution agreement, a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, an intellectual property matters agreement, a master cooperation and safety agreement and other agreements related to our operations. Under the transition services agreement, our former parent will continue to provide various interim corporate support services to us and we will provide various interim support services to our former parent. Under the transition services agreement for operations, we will be providing support services for our former parent continuing operations through the term of the existing contracts. The separation and distribution agreement provides for, among other things, our responsibility for liabilities relating to our business and the responsibility of our former parent for liabilities unrelated to our business. Among other things, the separation and distribution agreement contains indemnification obligations and ongoing commitments of us and our former parent designed to make our company financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the separation and including potential indemnification obligations for veil piercing actions brought by or on behalf of the Company. If we are required to indemnify our former parent under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement or other agreements, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. Some contracts and other assets which were transferred or assigned from our former parent or its affiliates to us in connection with the separation and distribution may still require the consent or involvement of a third party. If such consent is not given, we may not be entitled to the benefit of such contracts and other assets in the future, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The separation and distribution agreement provides that in connection with our separation from our former parent, a number of contracts with third parties and other assets are to be transferred or assigned from our former parent or its affiliates to us. However, the transfer or assignment of certain of these contracts or assets require providing guarantees or the consent of a third party to such a transfer or assignment. Similarly, in some circumstances, the Company and another business unit of our former parent are joint beneficiaries of contracts, and the Company will need to enter into a new agreement with the third party to replicate the existing contract or assign the portion of the existing contract related to the Company business. It is possible that some parties may use the requirement of a guarantee or consent or the fact that the separation is occurring to seek more favorable contractual terms from the Company or to seek to terminate the contract. If the Company is unable to provide a guarantee or obtain such consents on commercially reasonable and satisfactory terms or if the contracts are terminated, the Company may be unable to obtain some of the benefits, assets and contractual commitments which are intended to be allocated to the Company as part of the Company separation from its former parent. The failure to timely complete the assignment of existing contracts or assets, or the negotiation of new arrangements, or a termination of any of those arrangements, could negatively impact the Company financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, where the Company does not intend to provide a guarantee or obtain consent from third party counterparties based on the Company belief that no guarantee or consent is required, the third party counterparties may challenge a transfer of assets on the basis that the terms of the applicable commercial arrangements require that a guarantee be provided or obtain the third party counterparty consent. The Company may incur substantial litigation and other costs in connection with any such claims and, if the Company does not prevail, the Company ability to use these assets could be adversely impacted. In connection with the separation we agreed to assume, and indemnify our former parent for, certain liabilities. If we are required to make payments pursuant to these indemnities to our former parent, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. In addition, our former parent may indemnify us for certain liabilities. Our former parent indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of liabilities for which we will be allocated responsibility, and our former parent may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. Pursuant to the terms of the separation and distribution agreement and certain other agreements entered into as part of the separation, we agreed to assume, and indemnify our former parent for, certain liabilities for uncapped amounts, which may include, among other Item, associated defense costs, settlement amounts and judgments. Although such obligations are not currently quantifiable, such potential payments pursuant to these indemnities could be significant, and could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax free nature (for U.S. 43 federal income tax purposes) of the contribution, the distribution and certain related transactions, which are set forth in detail in the tax matters agreement and separation and distribution agreement, as well as the risk factor below entitled If the distribution, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes for a period of 2 years from the date of the distribution, our former parent, the Company and the Company stockholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities and, in certain circumstances, the Company could be required to indemnify our former parent for material taxes and other related amounts pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement . Third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of our former parent business. Our former parent agreed to indemnify us for such liabilities, but such indemnity from our former parent may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and our former parent may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from our former parent any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. Each of these risks could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the distribution, together with certain related transactions, does not continue to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes for a period of 2 years from the date of the distribution, our former parent, the Company and the Company stockholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities and, in certain circumstances, the Company could be required to indemnify our former parent for material taxes and other related amounts pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement. It was a condition to the distribution that our former parent receive a private letter ruling from the IRS, which was received on October 16, 2017, and 1 or more opinions of its tax advisors, in each case satisfactory to the Board of Directors of our former parent, regarding certain U.S. federal income tax matters relating to the separation and the distribution, including, the opinion of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz that the separation and distribution will be a transaction described in Section 355(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code ). The IRS private letter ruling and the opinion(s) of tax advisors were based upon and rely on, among other things, various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of our former parent and the Company, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our former parent and the Company. If any of these representations, statements or undertakings is, or becomes, inaccurate or incomplete, or if our former parent or the Company breaches any of its representations or covenants contained in any of the separation related agreements and documents or in any documents relating to the IRS private letter ruling and or the opinion(s) of tax advisors, the IRS private letter ruling and or opinion(s) of tax advisors may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. Notwithstanding receipt of the IRS private letter ruling and the opinion(s) of tax advisors, the IRS could determine that the distribution and or certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings upon which the IRS private letter ruling or the opinion(s) of tax advisors were based are false or have been violated. In addition, neither the IRS private letter ruling nor the opinion(s) of tax advisors addressed all of the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and the opinion(s) of tax advisors represent the judgment of such tax advisors and are not binding on the IRS or any court, and the IRS or a court may disagree with the conclusions in the opinion(s) of tax advisors. Accordingly, notwithstanding receipt by our former parent of the IRS private letter ruling and the opinion(s) of tax advisors, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert that the distribution and or certain related transactions do not qualify for tax free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. In the event the IRS were to prevail with such challenge, our former parent, the Company and the Company stockholders could be subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liability. If the distribution, together with related transactions, fails to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Section 355 of the Code, in general, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our former parent would recognize taxable gain as if it had sold the Company common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, unless our former parent and the Company jointly make an election under Section 336(e) of the Code with respect to the distribution, in which case, in general, (i) our former parent would recognize taxable gain as if the Company had sold all of its assets in a taxable sale in exchange for an amount equal to the fair market value of the Company common stock and the assumption of all the Company liabilities and (ii) the Company would obtain a related step up in the basis of its assets and, if the distribution fails to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Code, in general, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our former parent's stockholders who received Company shares in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. Under the tax matters agreement that our former parent entered into with the Company, the Company may be required to indemnify its former parent against any additional taxes and related amounts resulting from (i) an acquisition of all or a portion of the equity securities or assets of the Company, whether by merger or otherwise (and regardless of whether the Company participated in or otherwise facilitated the acquisition), (ii) other actions or failures to act by the Company or (iii) any of the Company representations, 44 covenants or undertakings contained in any of the separation related agreements and documents or in any documents relating to the IRS private letter ruling and or the opinion(s) of tax advisors being incorrect or violated. Any such indemnity obligations could be material. We may not be able to engage in desirable strategic or capital raising transactions as a result of the separation. Under current law, a spin off can be rendered taxable as a result of certain post spin off acquisitions of shares or assets of the spun off corporation. For example, a spin off may result in taxable gain to the parent corporation under Section 355(e) of the Code if the spin off were later deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which 1 or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, shares representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in the spun off corporation. To preserve the tax free treatment of the separation and the distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and in addition to the Company indemnity obligation described above, the tax matters agreement restricts the Company, for the 2 year period following the separation, except in specific circumstances, from entering into any transaction pursuant to which all or a portion of the shares of the Company common stock would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise; issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds; repurchasing shares of Company capital stock other than in certain open market transactions; and ceasing to actively conduct certain of its businesses. The tax matters agreement also prohibits the Company from taking or failing to take any other action that would prevent the distribution and certain related transactions from qualifying as a transaction that is generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Code. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions, equity issuances or repurchases or other transactions that we may believe to be in the best interests of our stockholders or that might increase the value of our business. The separation and distribution and related internal reorganization transactions may expose the Company to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal dividend requirements. If the Company files for bankruptcy or is otherwise determined or deemed to be insolvent under federal bankruptcy laws, a court could deem the separation and distribution or certain internal reorganization transactions undertaken in connection with the separation to be a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. Fraudulent conveyances or transfers are defined to include transfers made or obligations incurred with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or transfers made or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value when the debtor was insolvent, or that rendered the debtor insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due. A court could void the transactions or impose substantial liabilities upon the Company, which could adversely affect the Company financial condition and its results of operations. Among other things, the court could require Company stockholders to return to our former parent some or all of the shares of Company common stock issued in the separation and distribution, or require the Company to fund liabilities of other companies involved in the reorganization transactions for the benefit of creditors. The distribution of Company common stock is also subject to review under state corporate distribution statutes. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law (the DGCL ), a corporation may only pay dividends to its stockholders either (i) out of its surplus (net assets minus capital) or (ii) if there is no such surplus, out of its net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and or the preceding fiscal year. Although our former parent made the distribution of Company common stock entirely out of surplus, the Company cannot assure you that a court will not later determine that some or all of the distribution to our former parent's stockholders was unlawful. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and the Securities Market Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates or our earnings guidance; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; overall market fluctuations and domestic and worldwide economic conditions; 45 other factors described in these Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. As a result of these factors, holders of our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the initial market price or may not be able to resell them at all. In addition, price volatility with our common stock may be greater if trading volume is low. Furthermore, shares of our common stock are freely tradeable without restriction or further registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act ), unless the shares are owned by 1 of our affiliates, as that term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act. As a result, a sale of a substantial amount of our common stock, or the perception that such a sale may take place, could cause our stock price to decline. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our Company, or issue unfavorable commentary about us or downgrade our shares, the price of our shares could decline. The trading market for our shares depends in part on the research and reports that third party securities analysts publish about our Company and our industry. Because our ordinary shares were initially distributed to the public through the spin off, there was not a marketing effort relating to the initial distribution of our shares of the type that would typically be part of an initial public offering of shares. We may be unable or slow to attract research coverage and if 1 or more analysts cease coverage of our Company, we could lose visibility in the market. The impact of the revised EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive ( MiFID ), which requires that investment managers and investment advisors located in the EU unbundle research costs from commissions, may result in fewer securities analysts covering our Company. This is because investment firms subject to MiFID are no longer permitted to pay for research using client commissions or soft dollars and instead must pay such costs directly or through a research payment account funded by clients and governed by a budget that is agreed by the client, thereby raising their costs of providing research coverage. In addition, 1 or more analysts providing research coverage of our Company could use estimation or valuation methods that we do not agree with, downgrade our shares or issue other negative commentary about our company or our industry. As a result of 1 or more of these factors, the trading price of our shares could decline. We cannot guarantee the timing, amount, or payment of dividends on our common stock in the future. The payment and amount of any future dividend will be subject to the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition and prospects, our capital requirements and access to capital markets, covenants associated with certain of our debt obligations, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant, and there can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future. Your percentage of ownership in us may be diluted in the future. Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including, without limitation, equity awards that we may be granting to our directors, officers and employees. Such issuances may have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. It is anticipated that the compensation committee of the board of directors of the Company will grant additional equity awards to Company employees and directors, from time to time, under the Company compensation and employee benefit plans. These additional awards will have a dilutive effect on the Company earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of the Company common stock. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, 1 or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of 1 or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, we could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will continue to repurchase shares of our common stock or outstanding debt securities. In December 2017, CONSOL Energy's Board of Directors approved a program to repurchase, from time to time, the Company's outstanding shares of common stock or its 1100% Senior Secured Second Lien Notes due 2025, in an aggregate amount of up to 46 $50 million through the period ending June 30, 2019. The program was subsequently amended by CONSOL Energy's Board of Directors in July 2018 to allow up to $100 million of repurchases of the Company's common stock or its 1100% Senior Secured Second Lien Notes due 2025, subject to certain limitations in the Company's credit agreement and the tax matters agreement. Our share repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific number of debt securities or common shares and may be suspended from time to time or terminated at any time prior to its expiration. There can be no assurance that we will repurchase shares or debt securities under the repurchase program in the future in any particular amounts or at all. A reduction in, or elimination of, share repurchases could have a negative effect on our share price. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. The Company amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by laws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with the Company board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others the inability of our stockholders to act by written consent unless such written consent is unanimous; the inability of our stockholders to call special meetings; rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; the fact that our board of directors will initially be divided into 3 classes; and the ability of our directors, and not stockholders, to fill vacancies (including those resulting from an enlargement of our board of directors) on our board of directors. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that (without prior board approval) acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a 3 year period following the date on which that person or its affiliate becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation outstanding voting stock. We believe these provisions will protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or the removal of the existing board of directors and or management, of deterring potential acquirers from making an offer to our stockholders and of limiting any opportunity to realize premiums over prevailing market prices for our common stock in connection therewith. This could be the case notwithstanding that a majority of our stockholders might benefit from such a change in control or offer. In addition, an acquisition or further issuance of the Company stock could trigger the application of Section 355(e) of the Code, causing the distribution to be taxable to our former parent. Under the tax matters agreement, the Company would be required to indemnify our former parent for the resulting tax, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that could be considered favorable. Our certificate of incorporation designates the State Courts of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain an alternative judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents. Our certificate of incorporation provides that unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, a state court sitting in the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the District of Delaware) will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders; any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our bylaws; any action asserting a claim that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein; or any action asserting an internal corporate claim as defined in Section 115 of the DGCL. 47 Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise holding any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our certificate of incorporation described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, 1 or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments N1 ITEM 2 ITEM 2 Properties
