CIK: 97517
Company Name: TEXAS PACIFIC LAND TRUST
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2019-02-28
Accession Number: 0000097517-19-000015


Item 1 Business. General Texas Pacific Land Trust (which, together with its subsidiaries as the context requires, may be referred to as Texas Pacific , the Trust , our , we or us ) is 1 of the largest landowners in the State of Texas with approximately 900,000 acres of land in West Texas. Texas Pacific was organized under a Declaration of Trust, dated February 1, 1888, to receive and hold title to extensive tracts of land in the State of Texas, previously the property of the Texas and Pacific Railway Company, and to issue transferable Certificates of Proprietary Interest pro rata to the holders of certain debt securities of the Texas and Pacific Railway Company. Our Trustees are empowered under the Declaration of Trust to manage the lands with all the powers of an absolute owner. Business Segments We operate our business in 2 segments Land and Resource Management and Water Service and Operations. Our segments provide management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment of strategies and objectives of the Trust and provide a framework for timely and rational allocation of resources within businesses. See Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 10, Business Segment Reporting in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Land and Resource Management Our Land and Resource Management segment encompasses the business of managing the approximately 900,000 acres of land and related resources in West Texas owned by the Trust. The revenue streams of this segment principally consist of royalties from oil and gas, revenues from easements and leases and land sales. We are not an oil and gas producer. Rather, our oil and gas revenue is derived from our oil and gas royalty interests. Thus, in addition to being subject to fluctuations in response to the market prices for oil and gas, our oil and gas royalty revenues are also subject to decisions made by the owners and operators of the oil and gas wells to which our royalty interests relate as to investments in and production from those wells. Our revenue from easements is generated from easement contracts covering activities such as oil and gas pipelines and subsurface wellbore easements. The majority of our easements have a ten year term. We also enter into agreements with operators and mid stream companies to lease land from us, primarily for facilities and roads. We do not actively solicit sales of land. The demand for, and sale price of, particular tracts of land is influenced by many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the rate of development in nearby areas and the suitability of the particular tract for the ranching uses prevalent in western Texas. 1 Operations Revenues from the Land and Resource Management segment for the last 3 years were as follows (amounts presented in millions) Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 Segment Revenue % of Total Consolidated Revenue Segment Revenue % of Total Consolidated Revenue Segment Revenue % of Total Consolidated Revenue Oil and gas royalties (1) $ 1238 41 % $ 58.4 38 % $ 28.4 43 % Easements and sundry income 639 21 % 64.2 42 % 26.2 40 % Sale of oil and gas royalty interests 18.9 6 % % % Land sales and other income 4.9 2 % 0.7 % 34 5 % Total Revenue Land and Resource Management segment $ 2115 70 % $ 1233 80 % $ 58.0 88 % (1) On September 14, 2017, we settled the previously disclosed arbitration case with Chevron U.S.A., Inc. involving claims for underpayment of royalties. The Trust received $7.7 million as part of the settlement, including royalties that will be paid to the Trust on additional wells under several community leases. The settlement is included in oil and gas royalties for the year ended December 31, 2017. For the year ended December 31, 2018 , we sold approximately 1715 acres for an aggregate sales price of approximately $4.4 million , an average price of approximately $25,464 . Additionally, we sold nonparticipating perpetual oil and gas royalty interests in approximately 812 net royalty acres (1 8th interest) for approximately $18.9 million , an average price of approximately $23,234 per net royalty acre for the year ended December 31, 2018 . Competition Our Land and Resource Management segment does not have competitors, as such, in that it sells, leases and generally manages land owned by the Trust and, to that extent, any owner of property located in areas comparable to the Trust is a potential competitor. Water Service and Operations Our Water Service and Operations segment primarily consists of revenues from direct sales of water and to a lesser extent, easements and sundry income and royalties on sales of water. In prior years, we entered into agreements with energy companies and oilfield service businesses to allow such companies to explore for water, drill water wells, construct water related infrastructure and purchase water sourced from land that we own. Energy businesses use water for their oil and gas projects while non energy businesses (i.e., water management service companies) operate water facilities to produce and sell water to energy businesses. We continue to collect revenue from royalties and water sales under these legacy agreements. Drilling and completion activity in the Permian Basin continues to rise as operators increase their focus on development of leaseholds throughout the basin. Longer well laterals combined with large water load frac design, due to high proppant load and carrying limits, continue to drive the need for increased water demand for fracturing activities. In response to that anticipated demand, the Trust announced the formation of Texas Pacific Water Resources LLC ( TPWR ) in June 2017. TPWR, a single member LLC and wholly owned subsidiary of the Trust, focuses on providing a full service water offering to operators in the Permian Basin. These services include, but are not limited to, brackish water sourcing, produced water gathering treatment recycling, infrastructure development construction, disposal, water tracking, analytics and well testing services. TPWR is committed to sustainable water development with significant focus on the large scale implementation of recycled water operations. 2 Operations Revenues from our Water Service and Operations segment for the last 3 years were as follows (amounts presented in millions) Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 Segment Revenue % of Total Consolidated Revenue Segment Revenue % of Total Consolidated Revenue Segment Revenue % of Total Consolidated Revenue Water sales and royalties $ 639 21 % $ 25.5 16 % $ 8.1 12 % Easements and sundry income 24.8 9 % 5.8 4 % Total Revenue Water Service and Operations segment $ 88.7 30 % $ 313 20 % $ 8.1 12 % As of December 31, 2018 , TPWR continues to build out its brackish water production and distribution system. Our first sales from internally developed projects were made during the fourth quarter of 2017. As of December 31, 2018 , TPWR continues to build out its water production, storage and delivery infrastructure system in the Permian Basin. TPWR has entered into multiple sourcing contracts with oil and gas operators throughout the basin, the terms of which provide justification for continued investment. During the year ended December 31, 2018 , the Trust invested approximately $35.2 million in TPWR projects to develop brackish water sourcing and re use assets. Competition While there is competition in the water service business in West Texas, we believe our position as a significant landowner of approximately 900,000 acres in West Texas gives us a unique advantage over our competitors who must negotiate with existing landowners to source water and then for the right of way to deliver the water to the end user. Major Customers During 2018 , we received $46.0 million , or approximately 15% of our total revenues (prior to deferrals), which included $229 million of oil and gas royalty revenue, $119 million of easements and sundry income (prior to deferrals), and $111 million of water sales and royalties, from Anadarko E&P Onshore, LLC and $49.4 million , or approximately 16% of our total revenues (prior to deferrals), which included $27.1 million of oil and gas royalty revenue and $18.9 million of revenue from sales of oil and gas royalty interests, from Chevron U.S.A., Inc. Seasonality The business of Texas Pacific is not seasonal in nature, as that term is generally understood, although due to the nature of our operations, our revenue may vary widely from year to year and quarter to quarter. Regulations We are subject to various federal, state and local laws. Management believes that our operations comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations and that the existence and enforcement of such laws and regulations have no more restrictive effect on our method of operations than on other companies similar to the Trust. We cannot determine the extent to which new legislation, new regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations may affect our future operations. 3 Environmental Considerations Compliance with Federal, State and local provisions that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, have had no material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position of Texas Pacific. To date, Texas Pacific has not been called upon to expend any funds for these purposes. Employees As of January 31, 2019, Texas Pacific had 71 full time employees. Available Information The Trust makes available, free of charge, on or through its website copies of its Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ). We maintain our website at www.TPLTrust.com . The information contained on our website is not part of this Report. Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a degree of risk. The risks described below are not the only 1s facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or business could be harmed. In that case, the market price of our securities could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Global economic conditions may materially and adversely affect our business. Our business and results of operations are affected by international, national and regional economic conditions. A recurrence of recessionary conditions in the United States and elsewhere may lead to reduced industrial production which, in turn, may lead to lower demand and lower prices for oil and gas, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We face the risks of doing business in a new and rapidly evolving market and may not be able to successfully address such risks and achieve acceptable levels of success or profits. We have encountered and may continue to encounter the challenges, uncertainties and difficulties frequently experienced in new and rapidly evolving markets with respect to the business of TPWR, including limited operating experience; start up costs for a new line of business; lack of sufficient customers or loss of significant customers for the new line of business; and difficulties in managing potentially rapid growth. The Trust oil and gas royalty revenue is dependent upon the market prices of oil and gas which fluctuate. The oil and gas royalties which the Trust receives are dependent upon the market prices for oil and gas. The market prices for oil and gas are subject to national and international economic and political conditions and, in the past, have been subject to significant price fluctuations. Price fluctuations for oil and gas have been particularly volatile in recent years. When lower market prices for oil and gas occur, they will have an adverse effect on our oil and gas royalty revenues. 4 The Trust is not an oil and gas producer. Its revenues from oil and gas royalties are subject to the actions of others. The Trust is not an oil and gas producer. Its oil and gas income is derived primarily from perpetual non participating oil and gas royalty interests which it has retained. As oil and gas wells age, the costs of production may increase and their capacity may decline absent additional investment. However, the owners and operators of the oil and gas wells make all decisions as to investments in, and production from, those wells and the Trust royalties are dependent upon decisions made by those operators, among other factors. The Railroad Commission of the State of Texas sets authorized production levels for pro rated wells by regulation. In the past, the Trust income from oil and gas royalties has been limited by the production levels authorized by the Railroad Commission and we cannot assure you that they may not be so limited in the future. Our revenues from the sale of land are subject to substantial fluctuation. Land sales are subject to many factors that are beyond our control. Land sales vary widely from year to year and quarter to quarter. The total dollar amount, the average price per acre, and the number of acres sold in any 1 year or quarter should not be assumed to be indicative of future land sales. The Trust does not actively solicit sales of land. The demand for, and the sale price of, any particular tract of the Trust land is influenced by many factors, including the national and local economies, rate of oil and gas well development by operators, the rate of residential and commercial development in nearby areas, livestock carrying capacity and the condition of the local agricultural industry, which itself is influenced by range conditions and prices for livestock and agricultural products. The Trust ability to sell ranch land is, therefore, largely dependent on the actions of adjoining landowners. The impact of government regulation on TPWR could adversely affect our business. The business of TPWR is subject to applicable state and federal laws and regulations, including laws and regulations on environmental and safety matters. These laws and regulations may increase the costs and timing of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning water wells and treatment facilities. TPWR business could be affected by problems, slowdowns or other stoppages to operations of providing water treatment critical to the success of TPWR. The loss of key members of our management team, or difficulty attracting and retaining experienced technical personnel, could reduce our competitiveness and prospects for future success. The successful implementation of our strategies and handling of other issues integral to our future success will depend, in part, on our experienced management team, including with respect to the business of TPWR. The loss of key members of our management team could have an adverse effect on our business. If we cannot retain our experienced personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. If the liability of holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub shares were to be found to be governed by the laws of Texas, holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub shares might be held to have personal liability for claims against the Trust, to the extent such claims exceeded the assets of the Trust. The Declaration of Trust, which established the Trust, was executed and delivered in New York. Under the laws of the State of New York, the holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub shares are not subject to any personal liability for the acts or obligations of the Trust. The assets of the Trust are located in Texas. Under the laws of the State of Texas, the holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub shares may be held personally liable with respect to claims against the Trust, but only after the assets of the Trust first have been exhausted. Thus, if a court were to hold that the liability of holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub shares for obligations is governed by the laws of Texas, rather than New York, it is possible that holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub shares might be held to have personal liability for claims against the Trust to the extent such claims exceeded all of the Trust assets. The Trustees are not subject to annual election and, as a result, the ability of the holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub shares to influence the policies of the Trust may be limited. Directors of a corporation are generally subject to election at each annual meeting of stockholders or, in the case of staggered boards, at regular intervals. Under the Declaration of Trust, however, the Trust is not required to hold annual meetings of holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub shares to elect Trustees and Trustees generally hold office until their death, resignation or disqualification. As a result, the ability of holders of Certificates of Proprietary Interest and Sub shares to effect changes in the Board of Trustees, and the policies of the Trust, is significantly more limited than that of the stockholders of a corporation. 5 Our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of our results of operations for a full year. Revenues from oil and gas royalties may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon market prices for oil and gas and production decisions made by the operators. Our other revenue streams, which include, but are not limited to, water sales and royalties, easements and sundry income and sales of land, may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter. As a result, the results of our operations for any particular quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for a full year. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable.
