CIK: 1437557
Company Name: LILIS ENERGY INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2020-04-30
Accession Number: 0001437557-20-000050


Item 1 and 2 Business and Properties Overview Lilis is an independent oil and natural gas company focused on the exploration, development, production, and acquisition of oil, natural gas and NGLs from properties in the Permian Basin. Our operations are focused in the Delaware Basin of the Permian in Winkler, Loving, and Reeves Counties, Texas and Lea County, New Mexico, where the production is approximately 74% Liquids, a relatively high liquid production ratio compared to many of our peers. Over 90% of our revenues are generated from the sale of Liquids. Our History The Company was incorporated in the State of Nevada in 2007. The name of the corporation was changed from Recovery Energy, Inc. to Lilis Energy, Inc. in December 2013, and at such time, the Company was primarily focused on the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas properties in the Denver Julesburg (DJ) Basin. In June 2016, we completed a transformative merger transaction with Brushy Resources, Inc. ( Brushy Resources or Brushy ), which resulted in the acquisition of the Company initial assets in the Permian Basin. Given the stacked pay opportunities and high rates of return in the Permian Basin, the Company determined that it would focus exclusively on expanding and developing its core Permian Basin assets and completed the divestiture of all of its oil and natural gas properties located in the DJ Basin in March 2017. Our Business Strategy We are a pure play Permian Basin company focused on the production of Liquids. In each of the past 2 years, over 90% of our revenues have been generated from the sale of Liquids. We are actively working on increasing liquidity including seeking strategic financing options. There is no assurance that our efforts will be successful and as a result there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. See Note 2 Liquidity and Going Concern to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding our plans to improve our liquidity and our ability to continue to comply with the financial covenants under our Revolving Credit Agreement. Oil and Natural Gas Properties As of December 31, 2019, we owned leasehold acreage in approximately 27,920 gross ( 19,562 net) acres in the Delaware Basin, comprised of approximately 16,012 net acres in Winkler, Loving, and Reeves Counties, Texas and approximately 3,550 net acres in Lea County, New Mexico. Average net sales production volumes from our properties increased approximately 3% to 5,102 BOE d in 2019 from 4,965 BOE d in 2018. Our undeveloped leasehold acreage at December 31, 2019 was 15,250 gross ( 8,050 net) acres, of which 5,670 net acres have expiration dates in 2020 and will expire if the Company does not obtain necessary funding to either extend the leases or begin drilling before their expiration dates. As a result, we have recorded an impairment of unproved leasehold of $56.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2019. On February 28, 2020, the Company closed the sale of approximately 1,185 undeveloped net acres in Lea County, New Mexico, for net cash proceeds of approximately $24.1 million, subject to customary purchase price adjustments (the Marlin Disposition ). We currently estimate our properties include at least five to seven productive z1s and hold more than 1,000 future drilling locations across all of the productive z1s within this position. 7 Reserves Data Proved Reserves The following table presents our estimated net proved oil and natural gas reserves based on the reserves report prepared by LaRoche Petroleum Consultants, Ltd. ( LaRoche ) as of December 31, 2019, and the reserves reports prepared by Cawley, Gillespie & Associates, Inc. ( CG&A ) for the years 2018 and 2017. Each reserves report has been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). All of our proved reserves included in the reserves reports are located in the Delaware Basin of the Permian Basin Summary of Oil and Natural Gas Reserves For the Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 Proved Developed Reserves Oil (MBbls) 5,335 6,278 2,531 NGLs (MBbls) 2,278 2,654 645 Total Liquids (MBbls) 7,613 8,932 3,176 Natural Gas (MMcf) 29,445 27,046 6,594 Total MBOE 12,521 13,440 4,275 Proved Undeveloped Reserves Oil (MBbls) 14,927 4,640 NGLs (MBbls) 5,723 960 Total Liquids (MBbls) 20,650 5,600 Natural Gas (MMcf) 51,703 9,466 Total MBOE 29,267 7,178 Total Proved Reserves Oil (MBbls) 5,335 21,205 7,171 NGLs (MBbls) 2,278 8,377 1,605 Total Liquids (MBbls) 7,613 29,582 8,776 Natural Gas (MMcf) 29,445 78,749 16,060 Total MBOE 12,521 42,707 11,453 Proved Undeveloped Reserves As of December 31, 2019, we did not recognize any proved undeveloped reserves. During 2019, our proved undeveloped ( PUD ) reserves decreased 29,267 MBOE primarily due to capital constraints, as discussed below, and the conversion of 1 PUD to proved developed producing ( PDP ) reserves in 2019. Costs incurred to develop the PUD were approximately $7.5 million during 2019. All of our PUD reserves were reclassified as unproved due to our inability to meet the Reasonably Certain criteria for recognizing PUD reserves because of the uncertainty regarding the availability of capital to us for the development of these reserves as of December 31, 2019, which was driven by further pricing declines during the fourth quarter of 2019. See Note 2 Liquidity and Going Concern to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report. As a result, the Company recognized approximately $75.3 million of impairment relating to the value of PUD reserves which were reclassified as unproved in the fourth quarter of 2019. For additional information regarding the changes in our proved reserves, see our Supplementary Information on Oil and Natural Gas Exploration, Development and Production Activities to our consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report. 8 Control over Reserve Estimates The Company estimated proved oil and gas reserves have been prepared by the independent petroleum engineering firm LaRoche as of December 31, 2019 and CG&A as of December 31, 2018, assisted by the engineering and operations departments of the Company. For the year ended December 31, 2019, LaRoche estimated reserves for our properties comprising 100% of the PV 10 of our proved oil and gas reserves as described in more detail herein, in compliance with SEC definitions and guidance and in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering principles. Internal Controls over Reserves Estimate Our policy regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves is structured to objectively and accurately estimate our oil and natural gas reserves quantities and values in compliance with the regulations of the SEC. Responsibility for compliance in reserves bookings is delegated to our Chief Executive Officer with assistance from our Vice President of Reservoir Engineering. Technical reviews are performed by our Vice President of Reservoir Engineering, our senior geologist and other consultants who evaluate all available geological and engineering data. This data, in conjunction with economic data and ownership information, is used in making a determination of estimated proved reserves quantities. Indranil (Neil) Barman, our Vice President of Reservoir Engineering, has more than 23 years of industry experience and has been evaluating oil and natural gas properties since 2004. He received his Ph.D. degree in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University and is a registered professional engineer licensed in the State of Texas. For the year ended December 31, 2019, our Reserves Committee, a committee of our Board of Directors, assisted management and the Board of Directors with their oversight of our reserves estimation and certification process and the work of our independent reserves engineer. Following the resignation of 3 directors, effective as of April 15, 2020, the Board of Directors dissolved the Reserves Committee as a result of a reduction in the size of the Board of Directors. Our reserves estimates and the corresponding report from LaRoche, along with the process for developing such estimates, are also reviewed by our geologist and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors to ensure compliance with SEC disclosure and internal control requirements and to verify the independence of our third party consultants. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors reviews the final reserves estimate in conjunction with LaRoche reserves report. Third Party Reserves Study Our controls over reserves estimates include retaining an independent third party consultant, LaRoche, as our independent petroleum engineering consulting firm to perform a reserves report of our proved reserves for 2019. We provided LaRoche with information about our oil and natural gas properties, including production information, prices and costs, and LaRoche performed reserves studies using its own engineering assumptions and the economic data provided by us. All of our total calculated proved reserves value was estimated by LaRoche for 2019, and all of the information regarding our 2019, 2018, and 2017 reserves in this Annual Report is derived from the third party reports of LaRoche and CG&A. LaRoche is an independent petroleum engineering consulting firm that has been providing petroleum engineering consulting services for over 40 years. The technical personnel responsible for preparing the reserves estimates at LaRoche meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity, and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. LaRoche is an independent firm of petroleum engineers, geologists, geophysicists, and petrophysicists. They do not own an interest in any of our properties and are not employed on a contingent fee basis. All reports by LaRoche were developed utilizing their own geological and engineering data, supplemented by data provided by Lilis Oil and natural gas reserves and the estimates of the present value of future net cash flows therefrom were determined based on prices and costs as prescribed by the SEC and Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) guidelines. Reserves calculations involve the estimate of future net recoverable reserves of oil and natural gas and the timing and amount of future net cash flows to be received therefrom. Such estimates are not precise and are based on assumptions regarding a variety of factors, many of which are variable and uncertain. Proved reserves were estimated in accordance with guidelines established by the SEC and the FASB, which require that reserves estimates be prepared under existing economic and operating conditions with no provision for price and cost escalations except by contractual arrangements. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, we based the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on the trailing 12 month averages of oil and natural gas index prices, calculated as the un weighted arithmetic average for the first day of the month price for each month and costs in effect on the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the properties. 9 The price of oil and natural gas has fallen significantly since the beginning of 2020, due in part to failed OPEC negotiations as well as concerns about the COVID 19 pandemic, which has significantly decreased worldwide demand for oil. If these reduced prices continue or if prices of oil, natural gas and NGLs experience additional substantial decline, our oil, natural gas and NGL reserves may be materially and adversely affected. Oil and Natural Gas Production, Production Prices, and Production Costs Production Volumes and Sales Prices The following table summarizes the average volumes and realized prices of oil and natural gas produced from our properties during the periods indicated For the Years Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 Production Oil (Bbls) net production 1,131 1,090 372 Oil (per Bbl) average realized price $ 5219 $ 5326 $ 47.92 Natural gas liquids (Bbls) net production 221 246 74 Natural gas liquids (per Bbl) average realized price $ 17.52 $ 28.11 $ 2249 Natural Gas (Mcf) production 3,064 2,856 776 Natural Gas (per Mcf) average realized price $ 104 $ 184 $ 274 Barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) 1,862 1,812 575 Average daily net production (BOE) 5,102 4,965 1,576 Average Sales Price per BOE $ 35.47 $ 38.75 $ 37.57 The average oil and NGL sales prices above are calculated by dividing revenue from oil sales by volume of oil sold, in Bbls. The average natural gas sales prices above are calculated by dividing revenue from natural gas sales by the volume of natural gas sold, in Mcf. The total average sales price amounts are calculated by dividing total revenues by total volume sold, in BOE. The average production costs above are calculated by dividing production costs by total production in BOE. Oil and Natural Gas Production Costs, Production Taxes, Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization The following table sets forth certain information regarding oil and natural gas production costs, production taxes, and depreciation, depletion and amortization For the Years Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 Production costs per BOE $ 10.79 $ 9.51 $ 1221 Production taxes per BOE 177 205 206 Depreciation, depletion, and amortization per BOE 17.85 14.00 1221 Impairment of oil and gas properties per BOE 12260 18.26 Total operating costs per BOE $ 15301 $ 25.56 $ 44.74 Acreage The following table sets forth our approximate gross and net developed and undeveloped leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2019 Undeveloped Acreage Developed Acreage Total Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Delaware Basin 15,250 8,050 12,670 11,512 27,920 19,562 10 On February 28, 2020, the Company closed the sale of approximately 1,185 undeveloped net acres in Lea County, New Mexico, for net cash proceeds of approximately $24.1 million, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. Undeveloped Acreage Expirations Many of the leases comprising the undeveloped acreage set forth in the table above will expire at the end of their respective primary terms unless production from the leasehold acreage has been established prior to such date, in which event the lease will remain in effect until the cessation of production. The following table sets forth the net undeveloped acreage, as of December 31, 2019 , that will expire over the next 3 years unless production is established within the spacing units covering the acreage or the lease is renewed or extended under continuous drilling provisions prior to the primary term expiration dates 2020 2021 2022 Delaware Basin 5,670 1,570 90 As of the date of this Annual Report, leases holding 1,285 net acres in Reeves County and 593 net acres in Winkler County have expired in 2020. We have additional acreage that may expire depending on the timing and availability of capital for continued development of our leasehold acreage and lease renewals. Our undeveloped leasehold acreage at December 31, 2019 was 15,250 gross ( 8,050 net) acres, of which 5,670 net acres have expiration dates in 2020 and will expire if the Company does not obtain necessary funding to either extend the leases or begin drilling before their expiration dates, less 560 net leasehold acres as part of the February 28, 2020 Lea County, New Mexico leasehold divestiture. As a result of the uncertainty regarding the availability of capital to fund drilling operations or extend leases holding undeveloped acreage, we recorded $56.2 million of impairments for undeveloped acreage for the year ended December 31, 2019. Productive Wells As of December 31, 2019 , we had 18 gross ( 14.8 net) oil wells and 23 gross ( 19.8 net) natural gas wells. A net well is our percentage ownership interest in a gross well. Productive wells are either wells producing in commercial quantities or wells capable of commercial production, including natural gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Multiple completions in the same wellbore are counted as 1 well. A well is categorized under state reporting regulations as an oil well or a natural gas well based on the ratio of natural gas to oil produced when it first commenced production, and such designation may not be indicative of current production. Drilling Activity For the year ended December 31, 2019, we drilled 5 gross ( 4.4 net) horizontal wells in the Delaware Basin. We completed and placed on production 7 gross ( 5.4 net) horizontal wells. As of December 31, 2019, 4 gross ( 38 net) wells were drilled but not yet completed. All of these wells were successful, and n1 were a dry hole. 11 The following table sets forth information with respect to the number of wells drilled during the years indicated. Each of these wells was drilled in the Delaware Basin in the Permian Basin. 2019 2018 2017 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Exploratory Productive 5 4.4 9 8.7 5 4.2 Dry Development Productive 6 5.6 Dry Total Productive 5 4.4 15 14.3 5 4.2 Dry Present Activities As of December 31, 2019 , we had no wells in the process of drilling, completing, dewatering or shut in awaiting infrastructure. Title to Properties We generally conduct a preliminary title examination prior to the acquisition of properties or leasehold interests. Prior to commencement of operations on such acreage, a thorough title examination will usually be conducted, and any significant defects will be remedied before proceeding with operations. We believe the title to our leasehold properties is good, defensible and customary with practices in the oil and natural gas industry, subject to such exceptions that we believe do not materially detract from the use of such properties. We have identified title defects during 2018 and 2019 which resulted in impairment of undeveloped acreage costs and further title defects may exist which would result in impairment of undeveloped acreage costs. Our properties are potentially subject to customary royalty and other interests, liens for current taxes, and other burdens which do not materially interfere with the use of or affect our carrying value of the properties. The majority of our Delaware Basin leasehold position is also subject to mortgages securing indebtedness under our credit and guarantee agreement. With respect to our properties of which we are not the record owner, we rely on contracts with the owner or operator of the property or assignment of leases, pursuant to which, among other things, we generally have the right to have our interest placed on record. Competitive Business Conditions The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive, particularly with respect to acquiring prospective oil and natural gas properties. We face intense competition from a substantial number of major and independent oil and natural gas companies, many of which have larger technical staffs and greater financial and operational resources. These companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects. We also compete with other oil and natural gas companies to secure drilling rigs and other equipment and services necessary for the drilling, completion, production, processing and maintenance of our wells, and we could face shortages or delays in securing these services from time to time if availability is limited. In addition, we compete to hire and retain professionals, including experienced geologists, geophysicists, engineers, and other professionals and consultants. We believe the location of our acreage, our technical expertise, available technologies, our financial resources, and the experience and knowledge of our management enables us to compete effectively in our core operating areas, but we recognize that many of our competitors have greater financial and operational resources. The oil and natural gas industry also faces competition from alternative fuel sources, including other fossil fuels such as coal and imported liquefied natural gas. Competitive conditions may also be affected by future new energy, climate related, financial, and other policies, legislation, and regulations. 12 Marketing and Pricing We derive our revenue and cash flow principally from the sale of oil, natural gas and NGLs. As a result, our revenues are determined, to a large degree, by prevailing prices for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs. We sell our oil and natural gas on the open market at prevailing market prices or through forward delivery contracts. Because some of our operations are located outside major markets, we are directly impacted by regional prices regardless of Henry Hub, WTI or other major market pricing. The market price for oil, natural gas and NGLs is dictated by supply and demand; consequently, we cannot accurately predict or control the price we may receive for our oil, natural gas and NGLs. The price of oil and natural gas has fallen significantly since the beginning of 2020, due in part to failed Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) negotiations as well as concerns about the COVID 19 pandemic and its impact on the worldwide economy and global demand for oil and gas. The resulting precipitous decline in oil and gas pricing experienced during March 2020, through the date of this Annual Report, if prolonged. or a further deterioration of the market price for oil and natural gas, will further negatively impact our ability to continue to operate as a going concern. We have an active hedging program to mitigate risk regarding our cash flow and to protect returns from our development activity in the event of decreases in the prices received for our production; however, hedging arrangements may expose us to risk of significant financial loss in some circumstances and may limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs. Major Customers We sell our production to a small number of customers which is common in the oil and natural gas industry. The following table outlines our major customers and their percentage contribution to our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Texican Crude & Hydrocarbon, LLC 19 % 87 % ARM Energy Management, LLC 68 % % Lucid Energy Delaware, LLC 12 % 10 % ETC Field Services LLC 1 % 2 % 100 % 100 % Delivery Commitments ARM Sales Agreement On August 2, 2018, the Company executed a five year agreement with SCM Crude, LLC, an affiliate of Salt Creek Midstream, LLC ( SCM ), to secure firm takeaway pipeline capacity and pricing on a long haul pipeline to the Gulf Coast region commencing July 1, 2019. On March 11, 2019, the agreement was replaced with a five year agreement between the Company and ARM Energy Management, LLC ( ARM ), a related company to SCM. The new agreement accelerated the start date to March 2019 and guarantees firm takeaway capacity on a long haul pipeline to Corpus Christi, Texas, once completed, at a specified price. Under the terms of the new contract, the Company received pricing differentials on the crude oil sales contract subject to minimum quantities of crude oil to be delivered as follows Date Quantity (Barrels per Day) March 2019 June 2019 5,000 July 2019 December 2019 4,000 January 2020 June 2020 5,000 July 2020 June 2021 6,000 July 2021 December 2024 (1) 7,500 (1) Extending to the later of December 2024 or 5 years from the EPIC Crude Oil pipeline in service date (no later than June 2025). Further, ARM has agreed to purchase crude from the Company based upon Magellan East Houston pricing with a fixed differential basis . As of December 31, 2019 , the agreement no longer meets the criteria for the normal purchase normal sales exception under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging , due to the Company not meeting the minimum quantities deliverable under 13 the contract and the net settlement criteria being met. See Note 9 Derivatives to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding the recognition of the net settlement mechanism as an embedded derivative over the remainder of the contract. Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry General Our oil and natural gas exploration, production, and related operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations, which are under continual review for amendment, include matters relating to drilling and production practices; the disposal of water from operations and the processing, handling and disposal of hazardous materials; bonding, permitting and licensing, and reporting requirements; taxation; and marketing, transportation and pricing practices. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in substantial penalties, including administrative, civil, or criminal penalties. These laws and regulations increase our cost of doing business and can potentially affect our profitability. Regulation of Production of Oil and Natural Gas The production of oil and natural gas is subject to regulation under a wide range of federal, state and local laws, orders and regulations. These statutes and regulations require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations. The states in which we own and operate properties have regulations governing conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties, the establishment of maximum allowable rates of production from oil and natural gas wells, the regulation of well spacing or density, and plugging and abandonment of wells. The effect of these regulations is to limit the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce from our wells and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill, although we can apply for exceptions to such regulations so as to have reductions in well spacing or density. We believe we are in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations; however, should we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties. Environmental, Health, and Safety Regulations Our operations are subject to stringent federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety. There are various governmental agencies, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ), the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration ( OSHA ) and analogous state agencies, that have the authority to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations. Environmental laws and regulations may require that permits be obtained before drilling commences or facilities are commissi1d; restrict the types, quantities, and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; govern the handling and disposal of waste material; and limit or prohibit drilling and exploitation activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, and other protected areas, including areas containing threatened or endangered animal species. We do not believe that our environmental risks are materially different from those of comparable companies in the oil and natural gas industry. We believe our present activities substantially comply, in all material respects, with existing environmental laws and regulations. Nevertheless, environmental laws may result in a curtailment of production or material increases in the cost of production, development or exploration, and may otherwise adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we maintain liability insurance coverage for liabilities from pollution, environmental risks are generally not fully insurable. We are committed to strict compliance with these regulations. During the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, we incurred approximately $220,000 and approximately $38,000 , respectively, related to compliance with environmental laws for our oil and natural gas properties. The following is a summary of the more significant existing and proposed environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations to which our business operations are or may be subject and for which compliance may have a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, results of operations or financial position The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act . The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended ( RCRA ), and the comparable state statutes, regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non hazardous wastes. The RCRA imposes stringent operating requirements, and liability for failure to meet such requirements, on a person who is either a generator or transporter of hazardous waste or an owner or operator of a hazardous waste treatment, storage or disposal facility. The RCRA includes an exemption for certain oil and natural gas exploration and production waste from regulation as hazardous waste. A similar exemption is contained in many of the state counterparts to RCRA. As a 14 result, we are not required to comply with a substantial portion of RCRA hazardous waste requirements. At various times in the past, proposals have been made to amend the RCRA to rescind the exemption that excludes oil and natural gas exploration and production wastes from regulation as hazardous waste. Most recently, in April 2019, EPA concluded that rescinding the RCRA exploration and production waste exemption was not necessary at this time . In the event that we fail to comply with requirements for the management of hazardous waste, administrative, civil and or criminal penalties can be imposed. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with current applicable requirements related to hazardous waste management. Repeal or modification of the RCRA oil and natural gas exemption, or modification of similar exemptions in applicable state statutes, could increase the volume of hazardous waste we are required to manage and dispose of and could cause us to incur potentially significant increased operating expenses. Water Discharges . The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (also known as the Clean Water Act), the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Oil Pollution Act and analogous state laws and regulations impose restrictions and controls on the discharge of produced waters and other oil and natural gas wastes into navigable waters of the United States as well as state waters. Permits must be obtained to discharge pollutants into state and federal waters and to discharge pollutants into regulated waters and wetlands. Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure requirements of the Clean Water Act require appropriate secondary containment loadout controls, piping controls, berms and other measures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters in the event of a petroleum hydrocarbon spill, rupture or leak. In June 2015, the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers jointly promulgated rules redefining the scope of waters protected under the Clean Water Act, and in October 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit stayed them nationwide. The EPA and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have resumed nationwide use of the agencies prior regulations defining the term waters of the United States. On February 28, 2017, President Trump directed the EPA to review the rules and publish for notice and comment a proposed rule rescinding or revising the rules, as appropriate and consistent with law. The Clean Water Act and comparable state statutes provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for unauthorized discharges of crude oil and other pollutants and impose liability on parties responsible for those discharges for the costs of cleaning up any environmental damage caused by the release and for natural resource damages resulting from the release. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ( Oil Pollution Act ) and regulations thereunder are the primary federal law for oil spill liability. The Oil Pollution Act contains numerous requirements relating to the prevention of and response to petroleum releases into waters in the United States and imposes a variety of regulations on responsible parties related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages resulting from such spills in United States waters. The Oil Pollution Act subjects each responsible party to strict liability for oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages, including all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from a release, including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil to surface waters and natural resource damages. The Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended, establishes a regulatory framework for the underground injection of a variety of wastes, including brine produced and separated from crude oil and natural gas production, with the main goal being the protection of usable aquifers. The primary objective of injection well operating permits and requirements is to ensure the mechanical integrity of the wellbore and to prevent migration of fluids from the injection z1 into underground sources of drinking water. In response to recent seismic events near underground injection wells used for the disposal of oil and natural gas related wastewaters, federal and state agencies have been investigating whether such wells have caused increased seismic activity, and some states have shut down or imposed moratoria on the use of such injection wells. In Texas, the Texas Railroad Commission ( RRC ) regulates the disposal of produced water by injection well. The RRC requires operators to obtain a permit for the operation of saltwater disposal wells and establishes minimum standards for injection well operations. The RRC has adopted permit rules for injection wells to address these seismic activity concerns within the state. These rules could impact the availability of injection wells for disposal of wastewater from our operations. Increased costs associated with the transportation and disposal of produced water, including the cost of complying with regulations concerning produced water disposal, may reduce our profitability; however, we do not believe that the costs associated with the disposal of produced water will have a material adverse effect on our operations. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in substantial administrative, civil and criminal penalties, as well as injunctive obligations. We believe we are in material compliance with the requirements of each of these laws. Air Pollutant Emissions . The federal Clean Air Act (the Clean Air Act ), and comparable state and local air pollution laws, provide a framework for national, state and local efforts to protect air quality. Our operations utilize equipment that emits air pollutants which may be subject to federal and state air pollution control laws. These laws generally require utilization of air emissions control equipment to achieve prescribed emissions limitations and ambient air quality standards, as well as operating permits for existing equipment and construction permits for new and modified equipment. In May 2016, the EPA issued a final rule regarding the criteria for aggregating multiple small surface sites into a single source for air quality permitting purposes applicable to the oil and natural gas industry. This rule could cause small facilities, on an aggregate basis, to be deemed a major 15 source, which would subject operators to more stringent air permitting processes and requirements. These laws and regulations may increase our costs of compliance, and we may face administrative, civil and criminal penalties if we fail to comply with the requirements of the Clean Air Act and associated state laws and regulations. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of applicable federal and state air pollution control laws. Regulation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions . The EPA has adopted regulations that, among other things, establish Prevention of Significant Deterioration ( PSD ), construction, and Title V operating permit requirements for certain new and modified large stationary sources to address findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases ( GHG ) present an endangerment to public health and the environment. Facilities required to comply with PSD requirements for their GHG emissions will be required to meet best available control technology standards for those emissions, which will be established on a case by case basis. The EPA has also issued rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions, which include the reporting of GHG emissions from gathering and boosting systems, completions and workovers of oil wells using hydraulic fracturing, and blowdowns of natural gas transmission pipelines. While Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHG, there has not been significant activity in the form of adopted federal legislation to reduce GHG emissions in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional cap and trade programs have emerged that typically require major sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting GHG. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHG from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHG associated with our operations. Restrictions on GHG emissions that may be imposed could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources, as well as increase our costs of operations. Hydraulic Fracturing Activities . Hydraulic fracturing is a common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight unconventional formations. Federal and state occupational safety and health laws require us to organize and maintain information about hazardous materials used, released, or produced in our operations. Some of this information must be provided to our employees, state and local governmental authorities, and local citizens. We are also subject to the requirements and reporting framework set forth in the federal workplace standards. Several states and local jurisdictions have adopted, or are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, impose more stringent operating standards and or require the disclosure of the composition of hydraulic fracturing fluids. For example, the Texas Legislature adopted legislation requiring oil and natural gas operators to publicly disclose the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. The RRC adopted rules and regulations implementing this legislation that apply to all wells for which the RRC issues an initial drilling permit. The law requires that the well operator disclose the list of chemical ingredients subject to the requirements of OSHA for disclosure on an internet website and also file the list of chemicals with the RRC with the well completion report. The total volume of water used to hydraulically fracture a well must also be disclosed to the public and filed with the RRC. The RRC also adopted rules governing well casing, cementing and other standards for ensuring that hydraulic fracturing operations do not contaminate nearby water resources. Local government also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. We believe that we follow applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in our hydraulic fracturing activities; however, if new or more stringent federal, state, or local restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. For additional information about hydraulic fracturing and related regulatory matters, see Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Oil and natural gas Industry . Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act . The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ( CERCLA ), also known as the superfund law, imposes joint and several liabilities, regardless of fault or the legality of the original conduct, on some classes of persons that are considered to have contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of a disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that transport, dispose, or arrange for disposal of the hazardous substance(s) released. Persons who are or were responsible for releases of hazardous substances under CERCLA may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances and for damages to natural resources. 16 We generate materials in the course of our operations that may be regulated as hazardous substances. Despite the petroleum exclusion of CERCLA, which currently encompasses natural gas, we may handle other hazardous substances within the meaning of CERCLA, or similar state statutes, in the course of our ordinary operations. In addition, we currently own, lease, or operate numerous properties that have been used for oil and natural gas exploration, production and processing for many years, and some of our properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons was not under our control. Although we believe that we have utilized operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons may have been released on, under or from the properties owned or leased by us, or on, under or from other locations, including off site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. These properties and the substances disposed or released on, under or from them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state and local laws. Under these laws, we could be required to undertake investigatory, response, or corrective measures, which could include soil and groundwater sampling, the removal of previously disposed substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated property, or performance of remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination, the costs of which could be substantial. Endangered Species Act and Migratory Birds . The Endangered Species Act ( ESA ) restricts activities that may affect federally identified endangered and threatened species or their habitats through the implementation of operating restrictions or a temporary, seasonal, or permanent ban in affected areas. Pursuant to the ESA, if a species is listed as threatened or endangered, restrictions may be imposed on activities adversely affecting that species habitat. We may conduct operations under oil and natural gas leases in areas where certain species that are listed as threatened or endangered are known to exist and where other species that potentially could be listed as threatened or endangered under the ESA may exist. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of a threatened or endangered species. A critical habitat or suitable habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to land use and may materially delay or prohibit land access for oil and natural gas development. Similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. The identification or designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where underlying property operations are conducted could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on our exploration and production activities that could have an adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce reserves. If we were to have a portion of our leases designated as critical or suitable habitat, it could adversely impact the value of our leases. OSHA . We are subject to the requirements of OSHA and comparable state statutes whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard, the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act and comparable state statutes and regulations require that we organize and or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local governmental authorities and citizens. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety. State Laws . There are numerous state laws and regulations in the states where we operate that relate to the environmental aspects of our business. Some of those laws and regulations are discussed above. They relate to, among other things, requirements to remediate spills of deleterious substances associated with oil and natural gas activities, the conduct of salt water disposal operations, and the methods of plugging and abandonment of oil and natural gas wells which have been unproductive. Numerous state laws and regulations also relate to air and water quality. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all state laws governing environmental matters and all permitting requirements; however, in the event that we fail to comply with such laws, we may face substantial penalties and incur significant costs. Natural Gas Sales and Transportation Historically, federal legislation and regulatory controls have affected the price of the natural gas we produce and the manner in which we market our production. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ( FERC ) has jurisdiction over the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce by natural gas companies. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has substantial enforcement authority to prohibit the manipulation of natural gas markets and enforce its rules and orders, including the ability to assess substantial civil penalties. FERC also regulates interstate natural gas transportation rates and service conditions and establishes the terms under which we may use interstate natural gas pipeline capacity, which affects the marketing of natural gas that we produce, as well as the revenues we receive for sales of our natural gas and release of our natural gas pipeline capacity. FERC has also promulgated a series of orders, regulations and rules to foster competition in the business of transporting and marketing gas. Today, interstate pipeline companies are required to provide nondiscriminatory transportation services to producers, marketers and other shippers, regardless of whether such shippers are affiliated with an interstate pipeline company. 17 Under FERC current regulatory regime, transmission services are provided on an open access, non discriminatory basis at cost based rates or negotiated rates. Gathering service, which occurs upstream of jurisdictional transmission services, is regulated by the states onshore and in state waters. Although its policy is still in flux, FERC has in the past reclassified certain jurisdictional transmission facilities as non jurisdictional gathering facilities, which has the tendency to increase our costs of transporting natural gas to point of sale locations. Additionally, we are required to comply with anti market manipulation laws and regulations promulgated by FERC and the Commodity Future Trading Commission with regard to our physical purchases and sales of energy commodities and any related hedging activities, and, if we fail to comply, we could be subject to penalties and potential third party damage claims. Oil Sales and Transportation Sales of crude oil, condensate and NGLs are not currently regulated and are made at negotiated prices. Our crude oil sales are affected by the availability, terms and cost of transportation. The transportation of oil in common carrier pipelines is subject to rate regulation. FERC regulates interstate oil pipeline transportation rates under the Interstate Commerce Act and intrastate oil pipeline transportation rates are subject to regulation by state regulatory commissions. The basis for intrastate oil pipeline regulation, and the degree of regulatory oversight and scrutiny given to intrastate oil pipeline rates, varies from state to state. We believe that the regulation of oil transportation rates will not affect our operations in any materially different way than such regulation will affect the operations of our competitors, as effective interstate and intrastate rates are equally applicable to all comparable shippers. Further, interstate and intrastate common carrier oil pipelines must provide service on a non discriminatory basis. Under this open access standard, common carriers must offer service to all shippers requesting service on the same terms and under the same rates. When oil pipelines operate at full capacity, access is governed by pro rationing provisions set forth in the pipelines published tariffs. Accordingly, we believe that access to oil pipeline transportation services generally will be available to us to the same extent as to our competitors. Federal Income Tax and State Severance Taxes Federal income tax laws significantly affect our operations. The principal provisions that affect us are those that permit us, subject to certain limitations, to deduct as incurred, rather than to capitalize and amortize depreciate, our domestic intangible drilling and development costs and to claim depletion on a portion of our domestic oil and natural gas properties based on 15% of our oil and natural gas gross income from such properties (up to an aggregate of 1,000 barrels per day of domestic crude oil and or equivalent units of domestic natural gas). Additionally, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, natural gas and NGLs within its jurisdiction. Texas and New Mexico currently impose a severance tax on oil production of 4.60% and 8.39%, respectively, and a severance tax on natural gas production of 7.50% and 9.24%, respectively. Federal Leases Operations on federal oil and natural gas leases must comply with certain regulatory restrictions, including various non discrimination statutes, and certain of such operations must be conducted pursuant to certain on site security regulations and other permits issued by federal agencies. In addition, on federal lands in the United States, the Office of Natural Resources Revenue ( ONRR ) prescribes, and in some cases limits, the types of costs that are deductible transportation costs for purposes of royalty valuation of production sold off the lease, including the deduction of costs associated with marketer fees, cash out and other pipeline imbalance penalties, or long term storage fees. The ONRR has also been engaged in a process of promulgating new rules and procedures for determining the value of crude oil produced from federal lands for purposes of calculating royalties owed to the government. We cannot predict what, if any, effect any new rule will have on our operations. Some of our operations are conducted on federal lands pursuant to oil and natural gas leases administered by the Bureau of Land Management ( BLM ). These leases contain relatively standardized terms and require compliance with detailed regulations and orders, which are subject to change. In addition to permits required from other regulatory agencies, lessees must obtain a permit from the BLM before drilling and comply with regulations governing, among other things, engineering and construction specifications for production facilities, safety procedures, the valuation of production and payment of royalties, the removal of facilities, and the posting of bonds to ensure that lessee obligations are met. Under certain circumstances, the BLM may require our operations on federal leases to be suspended or terminated. 18 Other Laws and Regulations Various laws and regulations require permits for drilling wells and also cover spacing of wells, the prevention of waste of natural gas and oil, rates of production and other matters. The effect of these laws and regulations, as well as other regulations that could be promulgated in the jurisdictions in which we have production, could be to limit the number of wells that could be drilled on our properties and to limit the allowable production from the successful wells completed on our properties, thereby limiting our revenues. Seasonal Nature of Business Generally, the demand for oil and natural gas fluctuates depending on the time of year. Generally, demand for oil increases during the summer months and decreases during the winter months while natural gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. Seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers may sometimes lessen this fluctuation. Further, pipelines, utilities, local distribution companies, and industrial end users utilize oil and natural gas storage facilities and purchase some of their anticipated winter requirements during the summer, which can also lessen seasonal demand. Operational Hazards and Insurance The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including the risk of fire, explosions, blow outs, hydrogen sulfide emissions or releases, pipe failures and, in some cases, abnormally high pressure formations which could lead to environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks and the discharge of toxic gases. If any of these should occur, we could be required to pay amounts due to injury; loss of life; damage or destruction to property, natural resources and equipment; pollution or environmental damage; regulatory investigation; and penalties and suspension of operations. In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the operating risks to which our business is exposed. We evaluate the purchase of insurance, coverage limits and deductibles on an annual basis. Current Employees As of December 31, 2019, we had 43 employees, all of whom were full time employees. Our employees are not represented by any labor union or covered by any collective bargaining agreements. As a result of layoffs and furloughs in response to COVID 19 and current commodity market conditions, the Company currently has 20 active employees. We also retain certain independent consultants and contractors to provide various professional services, including additional land, legal, engineering, geology, environmental and tax services on a contract or fee basis as necessary for our operations. Principal Executive Office and Corporate Offices Our principal executive offices are in leased office space located at 201 Main St, Suite 700, Fort Worth, TX 76102, and our teleph1 number is (817) 585 9001 Availability of Company Reports Our annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934 will be available through our Internet website at https www.lilisenergy.com as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . The information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report and should not be considered part of this Annual Report or incorporated into any of our other filings with the SEC. 19 Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider all of the risks described in this Annual Report, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report. If any of the following risks, or any risk described elsewhere in this Annual Report, actually occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In any such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to Our Business Failure to comply with any of the financial covenants contained in our Revolving Credit Agreement could cause an event of default and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Revolving Credit Agreement (hereinafter defined and described in more detail) requires the Company to maintain a ratio of Total Debt to EBITDAX (each as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement) (the Leverage Ratio ) of not more than 4.00 to 100 and a ratio of Current Assets to Current Liabilities (each as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement) (the Current Ratio ) of not less than 100 to 100 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report for a more detailed description of these financial covenants. Failure to comply with these covenants could cause an event of default under our Revolving Credit Agreement and have a material adverse effect on our business. As of March 31, 2020, the Company was not in compliance with the Leverage Ratio and Current Ratio covenants. Pursuant to the Fourteenth Amendment (as defined in Note 11 Long Term Debt ), the Company obtained a waiver from the requisite lenders of its compliance with the Leverage Ratio and Current Ratio covenants as of March 31, 2020. A failure to comply with the covenants, ratios or tests in our Revolving Credit Agreement, or any future indebtedness, including borrowing base deficiency payments, could result in an event of default. If an event of default occurs and is not cured or waived, our lenders, (i) would not be required to lend any additional amounts to us, (ii) could elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees to be due and payable, (iii) could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings and (iv) could prevent us from making debt service payments under our other agreements. A potential event of default and subsequent acceleration of indebtedness would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have identified conditions and events that raise doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have incurred losses and negative cash flows from operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 and, as of December 31, 2019, and we had a stockholders deficit of $238.2 million . We anticipate negative operating cash flows to continue for the foreseeable future due to, among other things, significant uncertainty in the outlook for oil and gas development and external market pressures due to the effects of pandemics, epidemics and other global health concerns such as the COVID 19 pandemic and its impact on the worldwide economy and global demand for oil and gas that are not within our control. For example, the price of oil and natural gas has fallen significantly since the beginning of 2020, due in part to failed OPEC negotiations and to concerns about the COVID 19 pandemic, which has significantly decreased worldwide demand for oil. As of December 31, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents was $38 million and our working capital deficit was $1435 million . As of December 31, 2019, the Company was not in compliance with the Leverage Ratio and Current Ratio covenants. Pursuant to the Twelfth Amendment (as defined in Note 11 Long Term Debt ), the Company obtained a waiver from the requisite lenders of its compliance with the Leverage Ratio and Current Ratio covenants, among other waivers of default, as of December 31, 2019. In addition, we currently have no availability for borrowing under our Revolving Credit Agreement. As of March 31, 2020, the Company was not in compliance with the Leverage Ratio and Current Ratio covenants. Pursuant to the Fourteenth Amendment (as defined in Note 11 Long Term Debt ), the Company obtained a waiver from the requisite lenders of its compliance with the Leverage Ratio and Current Ratio covenants as of March 31, 2020. The Company does not expect to be in compliance with debt covenants in future periods without additional sources of liquidity or future amendments to the Revolving Credit Agreement. We have been unable to secure further sources of liquidity, and as a result, substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report and our auditors have included a going concern paragraph in their Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of recorded assets, or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be different should we be unable to continue as a going concern based on the outcome of these uncertainties described above. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets and may receive less than the value at which those assets are carried on our audited financial statements, and it is likely 20 that investors will lose all or a part of their investment. See Note 2 Liquidity and Going Concern to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this Annual Report for further detail. Our ability to continue as a going concern contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business, including the effective implementation and success of management plans to mitigate the conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report have been presented on the basis that we would continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our liquidity and ability to comply with debt covenants under our Revolving Credit Agreement have been negatively impacted by the recent decrease in commodity prices, which have fallen significantly since the beginning of 2020, due in part to failed OPEC negotiations as well as concerns about the COVID 19 pandemic and its impact on the worldwide economy and global demand for oil and gas. As of March 31, 2020, the Company was not in compliance with the Leverage Ratio and Current Ratio covenants and the Company will not be in compliance in future periods without additional sources of liquidity. Pursuant to the Fourteenth Amendment (as defined in Note 11 Long Term Debt Concern to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report), the Company obtained a waiver from the requisite lenders of its compliance with the Leverage Ratio and Current Ratio covenants as of March 31, 2020. The uncertainty related to our continued operations, liquidity, and compliance with the financial covenants under our Revolving Credit Agreement raises substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements do not reflect any adjustments that might result if we are unable to continue as a going concern. In order to continue to improve our leverage position and current ratio to meet the financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Agreement and satisfy the borrowing base deficiency payment, we are currently pursuing or considering a number of actions, which in certain cases may require the consent of current lenders and stockholders. In November 2019, our board of directors formed a committee of independent directors (the Special Committee ) tasked with reviewing and evaluating strategic alternatives that may enhance the value of the Company, including alternatives that may be available to identify and access further sources of liquidity. The Special Committee hired financial and legal advisors to advise the Special Committee on these matters. The Special Committee continues to explore other financing alternatives and deleveraging transactions. We are also addressing operational matters such as adjusting our capital budget and improving cash flows from operations by continuing to reduce costs, and we intend to continue to pursue and consider other strategic alternatives. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement any of these plans successfully, or that such plans, if executed, will result in compliance with our Revolving Credit Agreement covenants or allow us to continue as a going concern. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices are highly volatile. If commodity prices continue to experience substantial decline, our operations, financial condition, and level of expenditures for the development of our oil, natural gas and NGL reserves may continue to be materially and adversely affected. The prices we receive for our oil, natural gas, and NGL production heavily influence our revenue, operating results, profitability, access to capital, future rate of growth and carrying value of our properties. Oil, natural gas, and NGLs are commodities, and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the commodities markets have been volatile, and these markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The price of oil has fallen approximately $4300 a barrel based on WTI from December 31, 2019 to the date of this Annual Report, due in part to failed OPEC negotiations as well as concerns about the COVID 19 pandemic, which has significantly decreased worldwide demand for oil. If these reduced prices continue or if prices of oil, natural gas and NGLs experience additional substantial decline, our operations, financial condition and level of expenditures for the development of our oil, natural gas and NGL reserves may continue to be materially and adversely affected. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; the ability and willingness of the OPEC and non OPEC countries, such as Russia, to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil and the other actions of OPEC; the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; political conditions, including embargoes, affecting oil producing activity; the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; weather conditions; 21 technological advances affecting energy consumption the price and availability of alternative fuels; and epidemics, pandemics or other major public health issues, such as COVID 19. Our revenues, operating results, profitability and future rate of growth depend primarily upon the prices we receive for oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas that we sell. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow m1y or raise additional capital. In addition, we may be required to record asset carrying value write downs if prices remain low. The current low prices of oil and natural gas or an additional significant decline in the prices of oil and natural gas will adversely affect our financial position, financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to grow. We are analyzing and evaluating strategic alternatives to address our capital structure and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, undertaking or completing any strategic alternative, that any such strategic alternative will address our capital structure and not have a negative impact on our stockholders or that the process will not have an adverse impact on our business. In November 2019, we formed the Special Committee as part of a process to analyze and evaluate various strategic alternatives to address our capital structure and to position us for future success. The Special Committee continues to explore other financing alternatives and deleveraging transactions. The process of reviewing strategic alternatives may be time consuming and disruptive to our business operations and, if we are unable to effectively manage the process, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We could incur substantial expenses associated with identifying and evaluating potential strategic alternatives. No decision has been made with respect to any strategic alternative and we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, undertake and complete any strategic alternative that will address our capital structure and not have a negative impact on our stockholders or provide any guidance on the timing of such action, if any. Any potential strategic alternative would be dependent upon a number of factors that may be beyond our control. We do not intend to comment regarding the evaluation of strategic alternatives until such time as we have determined that further disclosure is necessary or appropriate. As a consequence, perceived uncertainties related to our future may result in the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness. We entered into the Revolving Credit Agreement in 2018. As of December 31, 2019, $115.0 million was outstanding under our Revolving Credit Agreement. As provided for in the Seventh Amendment to the Revolving Credit Agreement, and as a result of a decrease in commodity prices, on January 17, 2020, the borrowing base was decreased to $90.0 million . The reduction in the borrowing base resulted in a borrowing base deficiency of $25.0 million. We have made scheduled repayments of $17.3 million and pursuant to the Fourteenth Amendment to the Revolving Credit Agreement, the remaining $7.8 million is due on June 5, 2020. We may incur additional debt, including secured indebtedness, or issue preferred stock in order to maintain adequate liquidity and develop and acquire properties to the extent desired. If we are able to utilize our credit facilities in the future or if we obtain additional financing, our level of indebtedness could affect our operations, including limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes. Additionally, if we increase our indebtedness, the debt service requirements of the additional indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; and a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations would be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and would not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities. A higher level of indebtedness and or preferred stock also increases the risk that we may default on our obligations. The UK Financial Conduct Authority, or FCA, which regulates LIBOR, stated on July 27, 2017, that following 2021 it will no longer encourage panel banks to contribute to LIBOR, as it has d1 to date. Borrowings under our Revolving Credit Agreement bear interest at a floating rate of either LIBOR or a specified base rate plus a margin determined based upon the usage of the borrowing base. In the event LIBOR becomes unavailable prior to the maturity of our Revolving Credit Agreement, the rate of interest payable on our Revolving Credit Agreement may change. Uncertainty regarding the future of or changes to LIBOR or the unavailability of LIBOR could adversely affect our financial condition. 22 The Revolving Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement, guaranteed and further secured by substantially all our assets, contain restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to respond to changes in market conditions or pursue business opportunities. Our Revolving Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things incur additional indebtedness; create additional liens; incur fundamental changes; sell certain of our assets; merge or consolidate with another entity; pay dividends or make other distributions; engage in transactions with affiliates; and enter into certain swap agreements. The requirement that we comply with these provisions may have a material adverse effect on our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures or withstand a continuing or future downturn in our business. We may from time to time enter into alternative or additional debt agreements that contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, require us to sell assets or take other actions to reduce indebtedness to meet such covenants, or make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. In addition, our Revolving Credit Agreement requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. We may from time to time be out of compliance with covenants under our debt agreements, which will require us to seek waivers from our lenders. In connection with the preparation of this Annual Report and the associated financial statements, the Company became aware, and promptly informed its Lenders, that it did not satisfy the current ratio and leverage ratio covenants in the Revolving Credit Agreement, as of the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2019. Accordingly, the Company requested that our lenders consent to a waiver with respect to such provision. On March 30, 2020, the Company entered into that certain Twelfth Amendment and Waiver to Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, whereby our lenders granted a waiver with respect to the breach of the leverage ratio and current ratio covenants, among other waivers of default. As of March 31, 2020, the Company was not in compliance with the Leverage Ratio and Current Ratio covenants. Pursuant to the Fourteenth Amendment (as defined in Note 11 Long Term Debt ), the Company obtained a waiver from the requisite lenders of its compliance with the Leverage Ratio and Current Ratio covenants as of March 31, 2020. If we fail to comply with these provisions or other financial and operating covenants in the Revolving Credit Agreement, we could be in default under the terms of the agreement. In the event of such default, our lenders could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with the accrued and unpaid interest, and the lenders under or Revolving Credit Agreement could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder. If we are unable to access additional capital, it could negatively impact our production, our income and ultimately our ability to retain our leases. Our principal sources of liquidity historically have been equity contributions, borrowings under our credit facilities, net cash provided by operating activities, and net proceeds from the issuance of preferred stock. Our capital program may require additional financing above the level of cash generated by our operations to fund our growth. If our expected cash flow from operations decreases as a result of lower commodity prices or otherwise, our ability to expend the capital necessary to replace our proved reserves, maintain our leasehold acreage or maintain production may be limited, resulting in decreased production and proved reserves over time. We plan to finance our capital expenditures with cash on hand, cash flow from operations and future issuances of debt and or equity securities. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of factors, including our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves; the amount of oil and natural gas we produce from existing wells; the prices at which we sell our production; the costs of developing and producing our oil and natural gas reserves; our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; the ability and willingness of banks to lend to us; and 23 our ability to access the equity and debt capital markets. Our operations and capital resources may not provide cash in sufficient funds to maintain planned or future levels of capital expenditures. Further, our actual capital expenditures in 2020 could exceed our capital expenditure budget. In the event our capital expenditure requirements at any time are greater than the amount of capital we have available, we could be required to seek additional sources of capital, which may include refinancing existing debt, joint venture partnerships, production payment financings, offerings of debt or equity securities or other means. Our undeveloped leasehold acreage with expiration dates in 2020 at December 31, 2019 was 5,670 net acres and will expire if the Company does not obtain necessary funding to either extend the leases or begin drilling before their expiration dates. As a result, we have recorded an impairment of unproved leasehold of $56.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2019. As of the date of this Annual Report, leases holding 1,285 net acres in Reeves County and 593 net acres in Winkler County have expired in 2020. We have additional acreage that may expire depending on the timing and availability of capital for continued development of our leasehold acreage and lease renewals. V rde Partners, Inc., its portfolio companies, and its affiliates (collectively, V rde ) beneficially own a significant portion of our common stock. V rde is not limited in their ability to compete with us, and the waiver of the corporate opportunity provisions in the certificates of designation relating to our Series C Preferred Stock, Series D Preferred Stock, Series E Preferred Stock, and Series F Preferred Stock, may allow V rde to benefit from corporate opportunities that might otherwise be available to us. As a result, conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us and V rde concerning conflicts over our operations or business opportunities. V rde is a family of private investment funds that beneficially owns a significant portion of our common stock as a result of the conversion rights available to them under the Series E Preferred Stock (as hereinafter defined and described). V rde also has investments in other companies in the energy industry. The certificates of designation governing the preferences, rights and limitations of the Series E Preferred Stock provide that V rde is not restricted from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In particular, subject to the limitations of applicable law, if V rde, or any agent, shareholder, member, partner, director, officer, employee, investment manager or investment advisor of V rde who is also 1 of our directors or officers, becomes aware of a potential business opportunity, transaction or other matter, they will have no duty to communicate or offer that opportunity to us. As such, V rde may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities (such as acquisition opportunities) and may direct such opportunities to other businesses in which they have invested, in which case those opportunities may not be available to us or may be more expensive for us to pursue. Additionally, any actual or perceived conflicts of interest with respect to the foregoing could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. As of March 5, 2019, we converted our outstanding Second Lien Loans under our Second Lien Credit Agreement to a combination of 2 newly created series of preferred stock, Series E convertible preferred stock ( Series E Preferred Stock ) and Series F non convertible preferred stock ( Series F Preferred Stock ), and common stock and eliminated the conversion features and voting rights on our existing Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock, reducing potential dilution of our common stockholders. Our Series E Preferred Stock is convertible and, if converted, could result in dilution to our common stockholders. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting may not detect errors or potential acts of fraud. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls may not prevent all possible errors and fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are being met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls are evaluated relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of our controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Because of inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur without detection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 24 Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement Section 404, our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, we are required to conduct an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on framework of internal control issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ). Because of its inherent limitations, internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. In addition, projections of any evaluation effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. Further, the complexities of our quarter end and year end closing processes increase the risk that a weakness in internal controls over financial reporting may go undetected. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. If we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC and the NYSE American, including a delisting from the NYSE American, securities litigation, debt rating agency downgrades or rating withdrawals, any 1 of which could adversely affect the valuation of our common stock and could adversely affect our business prospects. Decreases in oil and natural gas prices may require us to take write downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties, potentially requiring earlier than anticipated debt repayment and negatively impacting the trading value of our securities. Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment through the performance of a ceiling test. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. We perform the ceiling test at least quarterly and, in the event capitalized costs of the full cost pool exceed this ceiling, we would recognize an impairment expense. We recognized an impairment expense of approximately $228.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. We did not recognize an impairment expense for the year ended December 31, 2018. Future write downs will likely occur for reasons, including, but not limited to, continued reductions in oil and natural gas prices that lower the estimate of future net revenues from proved oil and natural gas reserves, revisions to reserves estimates, or from the addition of non productive capitalized costs to the full cost pool that do not result in a corresponding increase in oil and natural gas reserves. Impairments of plugging and abandonment of wells in progress are other areas where costs may be capitalized into the full cost pool, without any corresponding increase in reserves values. As such, these situations could result in additional impairment expenses in the future. Impairment charges would not affect cash flow from operating activities but could have a material adverse effect on our net income and stockholders equity. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in our reserves estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Oil and natural gas reserves engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserves estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 25 In order to prepare estimates, we must project production rates and the timing of development expenditures and analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Although the reserve information contained herein is reviewed by independent reserve engineers, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Further, the present value of future net cash flows from proved reserves may not be the current market value of estimated oil and natural gas reserves. If our reserves estimates or the underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, it could have a negative impact on our earnings and net income, as well as the trading price of our securities. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or result in losses . In order to comply with the requirements of our Revolving Credit Agreement and to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas, we have entered into derivative contracts that economically hedge our oil and natural gas price on a portion of our production. These contracts may limit our potential gains if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the contract. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and actual prices received; our production and or sales of oil or natural gas are less than expected; payments owed under derivative hedging contracts come due prior to receipt of the hedged month production revenue; or the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations. Hedging transactions that we have entered into, or may enter into in the future, may not adequately protect us from declines in the prices of oil and natural gas. In addition, the counterparties under our current or future derivatives contracts may fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled over a period of several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of our drilling. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of future multi year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These scheduled drilling locations represent a significant comp1nt of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability of capital, costs, drilling results, and regulatory approvals. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the potential drilling locations previously identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from our potential drilling locations. As such, actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas is a speculative activity and involves numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs that could adversely affect us. Our success will depend on the success of our drilling program. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities as such studies are merely an interpretive tool. Drilling for oil and natural gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs will be discovered. The cost of drilling, completing, and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including unexpected or adverse drilling conditions; elevated pressure or irregularities in geologic formations; equipment failures or accidents; adverse weather conditions; compliance with governmental requirements; and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs, crews, and equipment, including as the result shortages of personnel due to epidemics, pandemics or other major public health issues, such as COVID 19. Additionally, the budgeted costs of planning, drilling, completing and operating wells are often exceeded and such costs can increase significantly due to various complications that may arise during the drilling and operating processes. If actual drilling 26 and development costs are significantly more than the current estimated costs, we may not be able to continue operations as proposed and could be forced to modify our drilling plans. A productive well may become uneconomical if water or other deleterious substances are encountered which impair or prevent the production of oil and or natural gas from the well. Unsuccessful drilling activities could result in a significant decline in production and revenues and materially affect our operations and financial condition by reducing available cash and resources. Financial difficulties encountered by our oil and natural gas purchasers, third party operators or other third parties could decrease cash flow from operations and adversely affect our exploration and development activities. We derive essentially all of our revenues from the sale of our oil, natural gas and NGLs to unaffiliated third party purchasers, independent marketing companies and midstream companies. Any delays in payments from such purchasers caused by their financial difficulties, including those resulting from the impacts of COVID 19 and its impact on the global economy, will have an immediate negative effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, liquidity and cash flow problems encountered by our working interest co owners or the third party operators of our non operated properties may prevent or delay the drilling of a well or the development of a project. Our working interest co owners may be unwilling or unable to pay their share of the costs of projects as they become due. In the case of a working interest owner, we could be required to pay the working interest owner share of the project costs. Our industry is highly competitive, which may adversely affect our operations and performance. We operate in a highly competitive environment. In addition to capital, the principle resources necessary for the exploration and production of oil and natural gas include leasehold prospects under which oil and natural gas reserves may be discovered; drilling rigs and related equipment to explore for such reserves; and knowledgeable personnel to conduct all phases of oil and natural gas operations. We must compete for such resources with both major oil and natural gas companies and independent operators. Many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. The capital, materials and resources needed for our operations may not be available when needed. If we are unable to access capital, material and resources when needed, we may face various consequences, including the breach of our obligations under our oil and natural gas leases and the potential loss of those leasehold interests; damage to our reputation in the oil and natural gas community; inability to retain personnel or attract capital; a slowdown in our operations and decline in revenue; and a decline in the market price of our common stock. Properties that we acquire may not produce oil or natural gas as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserves potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them, which could cause us to incur losses. 1 of our growth strategies has been to pursue selective acquisitions of undeveloped acreage potentially containing oil and natural gas reserves. If we choose, and have the capital resources, to pursue an acquisition, we will perform a review of the target properties. However, these reviews are inherently incomplete as they are based on the quality, availability and interpretation of the reviewed data and the acumen and the assumptions of the evaluation personnel. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property, well, facility and or file involved in an acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. We may not perform an inspection on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, we may not be able to obtain effective contractual protection against all or part of those problems, and we may assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with the acquired properties. If we acquire properties with risks or liabilities that were unknown or not assessed correctly, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected as claims are settled and cleanup costs related to the liabilities are incurred. We may incur losses or costs as a result of title deficiencies in the properties in which we invest. Prior to the drilling of an oil and natural gas well, it is customary practice in the oil and natural gas industry for the operator of the well to obtain a preliminary title review of the spacing unit within which the proposed oil and natural gas well is to be drilled to ensure there are no obvious deficiencies in title to the well. Frequently, as a result of such examinations, certain curative work must be d1 to correct deficiencies in the marketability of the title, and such curative work entails expense. Failure to cure any title defects may adversely impact our ability in the future to increase production and reserves. In the future, we may suffer a m1tary loss from title defects or title failure. Additionally, unproved and unevaluated acreage has greater risk of title 27 defects than developed acreage. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest or acquire, we will suffer a financial loss which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our producing properties are all located in the Delaware Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in 1 major geographic area. As of December 31, 2019, all of our estimated proved reserves were located in the Delaware Basin in Winkler, Loving, and Reeves Counties, Texas and Lea County, New Mexico. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production, availability of equipment, facilities, personnel or services, governmental regulation, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, plant closures for scheduled maintenance or interruption of transportation of oil or natural gas produced from the wells in this area. In addition, the effect of fluctuations on supply and demand may become more pronounced within specific geographic oil and natural gas producing areas, which may cause these conditions to occur with greater frequency or magnify the effect of these conditions. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties. Such delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be the operator on all of our drilling locations, and, therefore, we will not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non operated assets. Currently, we are the operator of approximately 99% of our acreage. As we carry out our exploration and development programs, we may enter into arrangements with respect to existing or future drilling locations that result in wells being operated by others. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of the drilling locations operated by our partners. Dependence on the operator could prevent us from realizing target returns for those locations. The success and timing of exploration and development activities operated by our partners will depend on a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. The marketability of our production is dependent upon transportation and processing facilities and third parties over which or whom we may have no control. The marketability of our production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems, rail service, and processing facilities in addition to competing oil and natural gas production available to third party purchasers. We deliver our produced crude oil and natural gas through trucking, gathering systems and pipelines. The lack of availability of capacity on third party systems and facilities has impacted our ability to sell natural gas and could reduce the price offered for our production or result in the shut in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of our development plans. Although we have contractual control over the transportation of our production through firm transportation arrangements, third party systems and facilities may be temporarily unavailable due to market conditions, mechanical issues, adverse weather conditions, work loads, epidemics, pandemics or other major public health issues, such as COVID 19, or other reasons outside of our control. Additionally, if our natural gas contains levels of hydrogen sulfide that require treatment prior to transportation, it could cause delays in the transportation and marketing of our production. Any significant changes affecting these infrastructure systems and facilities, as well as any delays in constructing new infrastructure systems and facilities, could delay our production, which could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. The shut in of our wells could negatively impact our production, liquidity, and, ultimately, our operations, results, and performance. Our production depends, in part, upon our wells that are capable of commercial production not being shut in (i.e., suspended from production). The lack of availability of capacity on third party systems and facilities or the shut in of an oil field production could result in the shut in of our wells. As of December 31, 2019, we had 2 wells shut in. In response to recent commodity prices and our efforts to strengthen our capital through reducing operating costs, during April 2020 the Company elected to shut in 12 wells which were identified as uneconomic as a result of the continued decline in 28 commodity prices in 2020 and 19 additional wells have been identified for short term shut in through May and June. The 19 wells identified for short term shut in are naturally flowing wells and could be turned back to sales quickly as market conditions dictate. The producing wells in which we have an interest occasionally experience reduced or terminated production. These curtailments can result from mechanical failures, contract terms, pipeline and processing plant interruptions, market conditions, operator priorities, and weather conditions. These curtailments can last from a few days to many months, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If we experience low oil production volumes due to the shut in of our wells or other mechanical failures or interruptions, it would impact our ability to generate cash flows from operations and we could experience a reduction in our available liquidity. A decrease in our liquidity could adversely affect our ability to meet our anticipated working capital, debt service, and other liquidity needs. Unless we find new oil and natural gas reserves to replace our actual production, our reserves and production will decline, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates and depletion that vary depending upon various factors, including reservoir characteristics and subsurface and surface pressures. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and revenue are highly dependent on our success in efficiently obtaining additional reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire reserves to replace our current and future production at costs or other terms acceptable to us, or at all, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Any future plans for exploratory and development drilling are subject to drilling and completion execution risks, and drilling results may not meet our economic expectations for reserves or production. Unconventional operations involve utilizing drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers. Risks that we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, not reaching the desired objective due to drilling problems, not landing our wellbore in the desired drilling z1 or specific target, not staying in the desired drilling z1 while drilling horizontally through the formation, not running our casing the entire length of the wellbore and not being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, insufficient mechanical integrity, not being able to hydraulic fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, not being able to run tools the entire length of the wellbore, improper design and engineering for the reservoir parameters, and unsuccessfully cleaning out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage. The success of our drilling and completion techniques can only be developed over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems or otherwise, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate and we could incur material write downs of undeveloped properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment supplies, or personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans, if and when we are able to resume drilling and completions activity. The oil and natural gas industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there are shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs of and demand for rigs, equipment and supplies may increase substantially and their availability may be limited. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified personnel, including drilling rig crews, may rise as the number of rigs in service increases. If drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel are unavailable to us due to excessive costs or demand or otherwise, our ability to execute our exploration and development plans could be materially and adversely affected and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 29 Terrorist attacks aimed at energy operations could adversely affect our business. The continued threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other government action have led and may lead to further increased volatility in prices for oil and natural gas and could affect these commodity markets or the financial markets used by us. In addition, the U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets may be a future target of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected oil and natural gas operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack on our facilities, customer facilities, the infrastructure depended upon for transportation of products, and, in some cases, those of other energy companies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to the operating risks and hazards associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including fires, explosions and blowouts; negligence of personnel; inclement weather; equipment or pipeline failure; abnormally pressured formations; and environmental pollution. These events may result in substantial losses or costs to us, including losses and costs resulting from injury or loss of life; severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources or equipment; pollution or environmental damage; clean up responsibilities; regulatory investigations; penalties and or suspension of operations; or fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation relating to such events. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities. We do not carry business interruption insurance, and we cannot fully insure against pollution and environmental risks. We may elect not to carry certain types of insurance if our management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The impact of natural disasters or weather events in the areas where we operate has resulted in escalating insurance costs and less favorable coverage terms. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or underinsured events may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations, including the loss of our total investment in a particular prospect. A failure of technology systems, data breach or cyberattack could materially affect our operations . Our information technology systems may be vulnerable to security breaches, including those involving cyberattacks using viruses, worms or other destructive software, process breakdowns, phishing or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing. Such breaches could result in unauthorized access to information, including customer, employee, or other confidential data. We do not carry insurance against these risks, although we do invest in security technology, perform penetration tests, and design our business processes to attempt to mitigate the risk of such breaches. However, there can be no assurance that security breaches will not occur. Moreover, the development and maintenance of these measures requires continuous monitoring as technologies change and security measures evolve. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, cyber security threats and incidents, n1 of which has been material to us to date. However, a successful breach or attack could have a material negative impact on our operations or business reputation and subject us to consequences such as litigation and direct costs associated with incident response. Information technology solution failures, ne2rk disruptions, breaches of data security and cyberattacks could disrupt our operations by causing delays, impeding processing of transactions and reporting financial results, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer, employee or our information, or damage to our reputation. A system failure, data security breach or cyberattack could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In the past, we have experienced data security breaches resulting from unauthorized access to our e mail systems, which to date have not had a material impact on our business; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in the industry. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or competitive pressures may force us to implement those new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, other oil and natural gas companies may have greater financial, technical, and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and, in the future, may allow them to implement new technologies before we are in a position to do so. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures and implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If 1 or more of the technologies used now or in the future were to become obsolete or if we are unable to use the most advanced commercially available technology, the business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 30 We have limited management and staff and may be dependent upon partnering arrangements. As of December 31, 2019, we had 43 full time employees. As a result of layoffs and furloughs in response to COVID 19 and current commodity market conditions, the Company currently has 20 active employees. We leverage the services of independent consultants and contractors to perform various professional services, including engineering, oil and natural gas well planning and supervision, and land, legal, environmental, accounting and tax services. We also pursue alliances with partners in the areas of geological and geophysical services and prospect generation, evaluation and prospect leasing. Our dependence on third party consultants and service providers creates a number of risks, including but not limited to, the possibility that such third parties may not be available to us as and when needed and the possibility that we may not be able to properly control the timing and quality of work conducted with respect to our projects. If we experience significant delays in obtaining the services of such third parties or poor performance by such parties, our results of operations and stock price could be materially adversely affected. Our business may suffer with the loss of key personnel or changes to our Board of Directors. We depend to a large extent on the services of certain key management personnel and other executive officers and key employees. These individuals have extensive experience and expertise in evaluating and analyzing producing oil and natural gas properties and drilling prospects, maximizing production from oil and natural gas properties, marketing oil and natural gas production and developing and executing financing and hedging strategies. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on operations. We do not maintain key man life insurance with respect to any of our employees. Our success will be dependent on our ability to continue to employ and retain skilled technical personnel. We have an active board of directors that meets several times throughout the year and is intimately involved in the business and the determination of various operational strategies. Members of our board of directors work closely with management to identify potential prospects, acquisitions and areas for further development. If any directors resign or become unable to continue in their present role, it may be difficult to find replacements with the same knowledge and experience and as a result, operations may be adversely affected. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions, and the integration of significant acquisitions may be difficult. Our business strategy is based on our ability to acquire additional reserves, oil and natural gas properties, prospects and leaseholds. If and when we are able to do this, significant acquisitions and other strategic transactions may involve risks, including diversion of our management attention to evaluating, negotiating and integrating significant acquisitions and strategic transactions; challenge and cost of integrating acquired operations, information management and other technology systems and business cultures with those of ours while carrying on our ongoing business; difficulty associated with coordinating geographically separate organizations; challenge of attracting and retaining capable personnel associated with acquired operations; and failure to realize the full benefit that we expect in estimated proved reserves, production volume, cost savings from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated from an acquisition, or to realize these benefits within the expected time frame. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management and other staff may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to the integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management and staff are not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. We may face difficulties in securing and operating under authorizations and permits to drill, complete or operate our wells. The continued growth in oil and natural gas exploration in the United States has drawn intense scrutiny from environmental and community interest groups, regulatory agencies and other governmental entities. As a result, we may face significant opposition to, or increased regulation of, our operations, that may make it difficult or impossible to obtain permits and other needed authorizations to drill, complete or operate, which could result in operational delays or otherwise make oil and natural gas exploration more costly or difficult. 31 Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Water is an essential comp1nt of deep shale oil and natural gas production during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Historically, we have been able to purchase water from local land owners for use in our operations. However, Texas has endured severe drought conditions over the past several years. These drought conditions have led governmental authorities to restrict the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to protect local water supplies. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations from local sources, we may be unable to produce oil and natural gas economically, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Legislative and regulatory initiatives related to global warming and climate change could have an adverse effect on our operations and the demand for oil and natural gas. The EPA has determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, or GHGs, endanger public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA, under the Clean Air Act, has adopted and implemented regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce GHG emissions and almost 1 half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce GHG emissions, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these GHG cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and natural gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction goal. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could have an adverse effect on our business. Legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and or oil from dense subsurface rock formations, and we routinely implement hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our drilling and completion programs. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA, under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act ( SDWA ), has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Additionally, local government may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. If new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in our exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. In addition, a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. These types of studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms. Current water regulation relating to hydraulic fracturing, particularly water source and groundwater regulation, could result in increased operational costs, operating restrictions and delays. Hydraulic fracturing can require between 3 to five million gallons of water per horizontal well. We may face regulatory concerns in both the sourcing and the discharge of water used in hydraulic fracturing. In order to source water from the local water supply for hydraulic fracturing we may need to pay premium rates and be subject to a lower priority if the local area becomes subject to water restrictions. We may also seek water from alternative providers 32 supporting the hydraulic fracturing industry. If we have an insufficient water supply, we will be unable to engage in hydraulic fracturing until such supply is located. In addition, hydraulic fracturing results in water discharges that must be treated and disposed of in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. Environmental regulations governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing may increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, and all of which could have an adverse effect on operations and financial performance. Our ability to remove and dispose of water will affect production, and the cost of water treatment and disposal may affect profitability. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could also include restrictions on our ability to conduct hydraulic fracturing or disposal of produced water, drilling fluids and other substances associated with the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the exploration, production and sale of oil and natural gas. Future laws or regulations, any adverse change in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations or our failure to comply with existing legal requirements may result in substantial penalties and harm to our business and could affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to make large and unanticipated capital expenditures to comply with applicable laws and governmental regulations, including regulations governing land use restrictions; lease permit restrictions; drilling bonds and other financial responsibility in connection with operations, such as plugging and abandonment bonds; well spacing; unitization and pooling of properties; safety precautions; operational reporting; eminent domain and government takings; and taxation. Our operations could be significantly delayed or curtailed and our cost of operations could significantly increase as a result of future changes in federal, state or local laws, regulatory requirements or restrictions. We may incur substantial expenses, and potentially resulting liabilities, to ensure our operations are in compliance with environmental laws and regulations . Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations relating to the release and disposal of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations, among other things, require a permit to be obtained before drilling or facility mobilization and commissioning, or injection or disposal commences; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to reach and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general and on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination or if our operations met previous standards in the industry at the time they were performed. The Company may be adversely affected by the recent COVID 19 outbreak. The spread of COVID 19 has caused severe disruptions in the worldwide economy, including the global demand for oil and natural gas, which has disrupted our business and operations. Moreover, since the beginning of January 2020, the COVID 19 outbreak has caused significant disruption in the financial markets both globally and in the United States. The continued spread of COVID 19 has resulted in a significant decrease in business and or cause our oil and natural gas purchasers to be unable to meet existing payment or other obligations to us, particularly in the event of a spread of COVID 19 in our market areas. The continued spread of COVID 19 could also negatively impact the availability of our key personnel necessary to conduct our business. Such a spread could also negatively impact the business and operations of third party service providers who perform critical services for our business. If COVID 19 continues to spread or the response to contain COVID 19 is unsuccessful, we could continue to experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 33 Certain of our assets, including our oil and natural gas interests, may be or become subject to mechanic and materialman liens if we are unable to pay our oilfield service providers on a timely basis. We enter into contracts with providers of oilfield services as part of our business. Under state laws, liens to secure payment for certain contractors and subcontractors performing certain mineral activities may be attached to certain of our assets, including our oil and natural gas interests. Due to existing economic conditions, we have been unable to, and may in the future continue to be unable to, pay certain of our oilfield service providers on a timely basis. As a result of not making such payments, certain of our assets have become subject to statutory mechanic and materialman liens, and additional statutory mechanic and materialman liens may be filed. As of the most recent date available, statutory mechanic's and materialman liens which remain unpaid in the amount of $8.7 million have been filed against the related assets. Risks Relating to Our Securities The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which may depress the market price of our securities and result in substantial losses to investors if they are unable to sell their securities at or above their purchase price. The market price of our securities may fluctuate substantially for the foreseeable future, primarily due to a number of factors, including our status as a company with a limited operating history and limited revenues to date, which may make risk averse investors more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the shares of a seas1d issuer in the event of negative news or lack of progress; announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our existing or future competitors; the timing and development of our products; general and industry specific economic conditions; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; liquidity and loan covenants; actions by our stockholders; changes in our cash flow from operations or earnings estimates; changes in market valuations of similar companies; our capital commitments; the sale or attempted sale or a large amount of common stock into the market; the loss of any of our key management personnel; and epidemics, pandemics or other major public health issues, such as COVID 19. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We may issue shares of our preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue 1 or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our stockholders. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock, in terms of dividends, liquidation rights and voting rights. We currently have four series of preferred stock issued and outstanding, which ranks senior to our common stock with respect to dividends and rights on the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, amongst other preferences and rights. There may be future dilution of our common stock. We have a significant amount of derivative securities outstanding, which upon exercise or conversion, would result in substantial dilution of our common stock. To the extent outstanding restricted stock units, warrants or options to purchase our common stock under our 2016 Omnibus Incentive Plan or our 2012 Equity Incentive Plan are exercised, the price vesting triggers under the performance shares granted to our executive officers are satisfied, or additional shares of restricted stock are issued to our employees, holders of our common stock will experience dilution. Furthermore, the sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in further dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the price of our outstanding securities to decline. 34 We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never paid dividends with respect to our common stock, and we do not expect to pay any dividends, in cash or otherwise, in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any earnings for use in our business. In addition, our credit facilities and preferred stock prohibit us from paying any dividends. In the future, we may agree to further restrictions. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the appreciation of their stock. Securities analysts may not initiate coverage of our shares or may issue negative reports, which may adversely affect the trading price of the shares. Securities analysts may not provide research reports on our Company. If securities analysts do not cover our Company, the lack of coverage may adversely affect the trading price of our shares. The trading market for our shares will rely in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us and our business. If 1 or more of the analysts who cover our Company downgrades our shares, the trading price of our shares may decline. If 1 or more of these analysts ceases to cover our Company, we could lose visibility in the market, which, in turn, could also cause the trading price of our shares to decline. Further, because of our small market capitalization, it may be difficult for us to attract securities analysts to cover our Company, which could significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our shares. Anti takeover effects of certain provisions of Nevada state law hinder a potential takeover of our Company. The existence of certain provisions under Nevada law could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Additionally, Nevada law imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock. We are currently not in compliance with the NYSE American listing standards. If our common stock is delisted, the market price and liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital would be adversely impacted. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE American. Continued listing of a security on the NYSE American is conditi1d upon compliance with various continued listing standards. On November 21, 2019, we received a deficiency letter (the First Deficiency Letter ) from the NYSE American stating that we were below compliance with the continued listing standards as set forth in Section 1003(a)(i) (iii) of the NYSE American Company Guide (the Company Guide ) because we had reported a stockholders equity deficiency as of September 30, 2019 and net losses in our five most recent fiscal years ended December 31, 2018. On December 3, 2019 we received another deficiency letter (the Second Deficiency Letter and, together with the First Deficiency Letter, the Deficiency Letters ) from the NYSE American stating we were below compliance with the continued listing standards as set forth in Section 1003(f)(v) of the Company Guide because our common stock had been selling for a low price per share for a substantial period of time. The Second Deficiency Letter stated that we must effect a reverse stock split of our common stock or otherwise demonstrate sustained price improvement no later than June 3, 2020. The Deficiency Letters had no immediate effect on our listing on the NYSE American and, therefore, our common stock will continue to be listed on the NYSE American, subject to our compliance with other continued listing requirements of the NYSE American. On December 20, 2019, we submitted a plan of compliance to the NYSE American addressing how we intend to regain compliance with Sections 1003(a)(i) (iii) of the Company Guide by May 21, 2021 On February 7, 2020, the Company received a letter from the NYSE American stating that our compliance plan has been accepted and that we have been granted a plan period through May 21, 2021 By May 21, 2021, we must either be in compliance or must have made progress that is consistent with the plan during the plan period. In addition, during the plan period, we must provide quarterly updates to the NYSE American concurrent with our interim and annual SEC filings. Failure to meet the requirements to regain compliance could result in the initiation of delisting proceedings. The Deficiency Letters do not affect our business operations or our reporting obligations under the rules and regulations of the SEC, nor do the Deficiency Letters conflict with or cause an event of default under any of the Company material agreements. If we cannot meet the NYSE American continued listing requirements by the end of our compliance period, the NYSE American may delist our common stock resulting in our common stock trading in the less liquid over the counter market, which could have an adverse impact on us and the liquidity and market price of our stock. The delisting of our stock from the NYSE American could result in even further reductions in our stock price, substantially limit the liquidity of our common stock, and materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital or pursue strategic restructuring, refinancing or other transactions on acceptable 35 terms, or at all. Delisting from the NYSE American could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by vendors and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Our management is considering alternatives to ensure continued compliance with NYSE American listing standards, but there is no assurance that we will continue to maintain compliance with NYSE American continued listing standards. Item 3 Legal Proceedings
