CIK: 1489096
Company Name: THERMON GROUP HOLDINGS INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2020-06-01
Accession Number: 0001489096-20-000088


ITEM 1 BUSINESS Business Overview We are 1 of the largest providers of highly engineered industrial process heating solutions for process industries. For over 65 years, we have served a diverse base of thousands of customers around the world in attractive and growing markets, including oil & gas, chemical processing, power generation, transportation, mining and other industrial markets. We offer a full suite of products (heating units, heating cables, temporary power solutions and tubing bundles), services (engineering, installation and maintenance services) and software (design optimization and control systems) required to deliver comprehensive solutions to some of the world's largest and most complex projects. With a legacy of innovation and sustained investment in research and development, Thermon has established itself as a technology leader in hazardous or classified areas. We serve our customers through a global ne2rk of sales and service professionals and distributors in more than 30 countries and through our ten manufacturing facilities on 3 continents. These global capabilities and longstanding relationships with some of the largest multinational oil & gas, chemical processing, power and engineering, procurement and construction ("EPC") companies in the world have enabled us to diversify our revenue streams and opportunistically access high growth markets worldwide. Our heat tracing products provide an external heat source to pipes, vessels and instruments for the purposes of freeze protection, temperature and flow maintenance, environmental monitoring, and surface snow and ice melting. We offer both electric and steam heat tracing, as both are utilized to a significant extent in our end markets. Customers typically purchase our products when constructing a new facility, which we refer to as "Greenfield projects", or when performing maintenance, repair and operations on a facility's existing heat traced pipes or upgrading or expanding a current facility, which we refer to collectively as "MRO UE." A large processing facility may require our heat tracing for a majority of its pipes, with the largest facilities containing hundreds of thousands of feet of heat tracing cable and thousands of control points. While our products represent a fraction of the total cost of a typical processing facility, they are critical to the safe and profitable operation of the facility. These facilities are complex, with numerous classified areas that are inherently hazardous and where product safety concerns are paramount. We believe that our strong brand and established reputation for safety, reliability and customer service are critical contributors to our customers' purchasing decisions. Our customers' need for MRO UE solutions provides us with attractive recurring revenue streams. Customers typically use the incumbent heat tracing provider for MRO UE projects to avoid complications and compatibility problems associated with switching providers. We typically begin to realize meaningful MRO UE revenue from new Greenfield installations 1 to 3 years after completion of the project as customers begin to remove and replace our products during routine and preventative maintenance on in line mechanical equipment, such as pipes and valves. As a result, our growth has been driven by new facility construction, as well as by servicing our continually growing base of solutions installed around the world, which we refer to as our installed base. Approximately 60% of our revenue for fiscal 2020 , excluding CCI Thermal Technologies Inc., now Thermon Heating Systems ("THS"), was derived from such MRO UE activities. In April 2015, we expanded our product offerings beyond our legacy heat tracing products to include temporary electrical power distribution products through our acquisition of Sumac Fabrication Company Limited ("Sumac"). These temporary electrical power distribution products (branded as "Thermon Power Solutions") are sold in many of the same markets as our thermal solution offerings, which we believe provides an attractive complementary offering to our customers that engage in new facility construction as well as maintenance, turnaround and expansion activities. Our newest industrial process heating offerings made possible through the acquisition of THS in October 2017 give us the ability to access a much broader footprint of a typical refining or heavy manufacturing facility where our legacy products have generally been required. With our full suite of heating products, we can now extend beyond the external heating of pipes offered by heat tracing. Our family of environmental heating products (branded as Ruffneck and Catadyne ) range from electric or gas powered space heating for personnel operating in harsh and hazardous environments to specific comp1nts in the same environments that need special protection. THS also offers a broad spectrum of capabilities in the process heating line. 1 Immersion, circulation, and other highly engineered forms of process heating (branded as Caloritech ) protects process fluids as they reside in tanks or vessels or in transit through the plant. 1 can think of our legacy capabilities as heating from the outside, whereas our additional capabilities provide us the products to heat from within. THS holds an N stamp, or Nuclear Comp1nt Certification, allowing us to serve the nuclear power sector with heating and filtration products. These highly specialized filters use advanced mediums and specialized metals to perform under extreme heat and pressure. These products are branded as 3L Filters. Lastly, we provide a full spectrum of heating products like our Hellfire , ArcticSense and some Caloritech offerings to the rail and transit industry. In both rolling stock and rail infrastructure, THS is a market leader in providing heat to rail cars, tracks, and switches throughout the world. Our corporate offices are located at 7171 Southwest Parkway, Building 300, Suite 200, Austin, Texas 78735. Our teleph1 number is (512) 690 0600. Our website address is www.thermon.com. Copies of the charters of the committees of our board of directors, our code of business conduct and ethics and our corporate governance guidelines are available free of charge on our Investor Relations website located at http ir.thermon.com . All reports that we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including this Annual Report on Form 10 K and our Current Reports on Form 8 K, can be obtained free of charge from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov or through our Investor Relations website. In addition, all reports filed with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549 1090. Information regarding the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. N1 of the information on our website or any other website identified herein is incorporated by reference in this annual report and should not be considered a part of this annual report. Company History Thermon, Inc., our principal operating subsidiary in the United States, was founded as a partnership in October 1954 and later incorporated in Texas in 1960. At that time, our primary product was a thermally conductive heat transfer compound invented by our founder, Richard Burdick. Under Mr. Burdick's leadership, we experienced steady growth by diversifying our products and expanding our geographic reach. Mr. Burdick and his family maintained a controlling interest in us until August 2007, when the controlling interest was sold to an affiliate of the Audax Group private equity firm. During Audax's tenure as our majority owner, we positi1d ourselves to take advantage of rising demand in the energy end market and secured significant capital projects. On April 30, 2010, an investor group led by entities affiliated with CHS Capital LLC and 2 other private equity firms, which we refer to collectively as our "former private equity sponsors", acquired Audax's controlling interest in us. The acquisition and related transaction expenses were financed through the issuance of senior secured notes and an equity investment by our former private equity sponsors and certain members of our current and former management team. As used in this annual report, the "CHS Transactions" refer collectively to such acquisition, the equity investment in us by CHS, our other former private equity sponsors and certain members of our management team and related financing transactions. In May 2011, we completed the initial public offering of our common stock (or "IPO"), and our common stock became listed on The New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "THR." Our former private equity sponsors sold shares of our common stock in both the IPO and a secondary public offering in September 2012 As of March 31, 2013, our former private equity sponsors had sold or otherwise disposed of all of their shares of common stock in the Company. On April 1, 2015, we acquired a 75% controlling interest in the business previously operated by Sumac for approximately $110 million in cash and up to $5.9 million of potential additional contingent cash consideration, which was settled for $5.8 million in fiscal 2017. Sumac is based in Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada and designs and manufactures temporary electrical power distribution equipment that is used in hazardous location and general purpose areas within industrial facilities. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, we acquired the remaining 25% non controlling interest for $4.5 million and hold 100% of the equity interest of Sumac. In October 2017, we, through a wholly owned subsidiary, acquired 100% of the equity interests of CCI Thermal Technologies Inc. and certain related real estate assets for $2624 million CAD (approximately $204.6 million USD at the exchange rate as of October 30, 2017) in cash. Such subsidiary and CCI Thermal Technologies Inc. amalgamated immediately after the closing of the acquisition to form Thermon Heating Systems, Inc., an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. THS is engaged in industrial process heating, focused on the development and production of advanced heating and filtration solutions for industrial and hazardous area applications and is headquartered in Oakville, Ontario, Canada. THS markets its products through several diverse brands known for high quality, safety and reliability, and serves clients in the energy, petrochemical, electrical distribution, power, transit and industrial end markets globally. We have been able to leverage our existing global sales force to further expand the reach of THS's product offerings. 2 Industry Overview We estimate that the market for industrial process heating design and parts was approximately $4.0 billion in annual revenue in 2019. The October 2017 acquisition of THS diversified Thermon's product and service mix to encompass the broader industrial process heating industry, which includes industrial heat tracing. We estimate that the industrial heat tracing market is composed of approximately 60% electric heat tracing and 40% steam heat tracing. While some environments welcome a conversion to electric heat tracing, a significant number of applications will remain protected by steam due to both safety and the fact that many processes generate steam as a by product, making it readily available. The industrial electric heat tracing industry is fragmented and consists of more than 30 companies that typically only serve discrete local markets with manufactured products and provide a limited service offering. The market for steam heat tracing solutions is equally as fragmented, but served by fewer companies, as the applications can be extremely high temperature requiring specific domain knowledge and manufacturing and installation techniques that are unique. Much like electric and steam heat tracing, the global process heating market is highly fragmented. Industrial process heating providers differentiate themselves through the quality and reputation of their products, the length and quality of their customer relationships and their ability to provide comprehensive solutions. Large multinational companies drive the majority of spending for the types of major industrial facilities that require process heating, and we believe that they prefer providers who have a global footprint and a comprehensive suite of products and services. We believe we are 1 of only a few companies that meet these criteria. The major end markets that drive demand for process heating include oil & gas, chemical processing and power generation. We believe there are attractive long term trends in each of these end markets. Oil & Gas. Process heating is used to facilitate the processing, transportation and freeze protection of energy products in both upstream and downstream oil and gas applications. According to the International Energy Agency ("IEA"), natural gas supplies 22% of the energy used worldwide, makes up nearly a quarter of electricity generation and plays a crucial role as a feedstock for industry. The oil and gas end market accounted for approximately 38% of the total market for industrial process heating in 2019, or approximately $15 billion in revenue. Global oil prices have significantly declined in the last twelve months to the lowest levels on record due to the impact of both reduction in demand due to the COVID 19 pandemic as well as the current over supply from oil producing regions. Customers have responded with reduced capital spending forecasts in the near term. Chemical Processing. Process heating is required for temperature maintenance and freeze protection in a variety of chemical processing applications. Factors that may impact process heating demand in chemicals end markets include the rapid industrialization of the developing world, a shift in base chemical processing operations to low cost feedstock regions, a transition of Western chemical processing activities from commodity products to specialty products and environmental compliance. The IEA estimates that new global petrochemicals capacity will account for 33% of oil demand growth by 2030. We estimate that the chemicals end market (including petrochemical) accounted for approximately 14% of the total market for industrial process heating in 2019, or approximately $560 million in revenue. Power Generation. Process heating is required for high temperature product maintenance, freeze protection and environmental regulation compliance in coal and gas facilities and for safety systems in nuclear facilities. An important driver of demand for process heating solutions for power generation is increasing demand for electricity worldwide. We estimate that the power generation end market accounted for approximately 7% of the total market for industrial process heating in 2019, or approximately $280 million in revenue. According to the IEA's World Energy Outlook 2019, electricity currently accounts for 19% of final energy consumption, a share that is expected to increase as demand growth for electricity outpaces all other fuels. According to the IEA's World Energy Outlook 2018's Stated New Policies Scenario, electricity will account for 24% of final energy consumption in 2040. Transportation. Process heating is required to safely clear and heat rail switches, melt snow and ice from platforms, and provide comfort heating and defrosting in rolling stock. With over 11 million kilometers of operational railway in the world, it is still 1 of the most economical and safe solutions for passengers and products globally. According to an estimate by IEA, passenger and freight activity will more than double by 2050 given current trends. Of this growth, the commercial rail and transit sector represents the largest increase at approximately 8.9% through 2028. We estimate that our transportation industry end markets accounted for approximately 6% of the total market for industrial process heating in fiscal 2019, or approximately $240 million in revenue. 3 Segments We operate in four reportable segments based on four geographic countries or regions in which we operate (i) United States and Latin America ("US LAM"), (ii) Canada, (iii) Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") and (iv) Asia Pacific ("APAC"). Within our four reportable segments, our core products and services are focused on thermal solutions primarily related to the industrial process heating industry. Each of our reportable segments serves a similar class of customers, including engineering, procurement and construction companies, international and regional oil and gas companies, commercial sub contractors, electrical comp1nt distributors and direct sales to existing plant or industrial applications. Profitability within our segments is measured by operating income. Profitability can vary in each of our reportable segments based on the competitive environment within the region, the level of corporate overhead, such as the salaries of our senior executives, and the level of research and development and marketing activities in the region, as well as the mix of products and services. Since March 2015, we acquired THS, Unitemp, IPI and Sumac. THS (formerly known as CCI Thermal Technologies Inc.) develops and produces advanced industrial heating and filtration solutions for industrial and hazardous area applications that closely align with Thermon's core business and serves similar end markets in North America. As such, we have elected to report THS's operations through our US LAM and Canada reportable segments. Both Unitemp and IPI offer thermal solutions and have been included in our EMEA and US LAM reportable segments, respectively. Sumac provides temporary power products that differ from our core thermal solutions business. As operating results from Sumac comprise less than 10% of our total sales and operating income, Sumac has been aggregated in our Canada segment. See Note 18, "Segment Information" for financial data relating to our four reportable geographic segments. Products, Services and Software Our products include a wide range of electric heat tracing cables, steam tracing comp1nts, tubing bundles, instrument and control products, process heaters, environmental heaters and other complementary products and services, including self regulating and power limiting heating cables made with proprietary materials technology, which automatically regulate heat output as pipe temperature changes as well as constant wattage heating cables; mineral insulated, or "MI," cable, which is a high performance heat tracing product made without polymers for the highest temperature applications and harsh environments; long line skin effect trace heating systems, which can heat lines in excess of 15 miles long from a single power point; heat traced and insulated tubing bundles for environmental gas sampling systems; heat transfer compounds and steam tubing for comprehensive steam tracing solutions; tank heating and insulation systems; control and monitoring systems custom builds for heat tracing applications leveraging the latest connected and secure software, firmware, and electronics technologies; control and power distribution panel and skid assemblies; project engineering and management services delivering optimized engineering drawing and specification packages for heat trace systems for complex industrial facilities; design automation software that automates, optimizes and ensures accuracy in the generation of thousands of installed CAD drawings, bills of materials and specification typical of a large project; construction and field services for the installation, operation and maintenance of heat trace systems; products and services from the THS transaction, which include high efficiency explosion proof gas catalytic heaters, convection heaters designed for rugged industrial applications, electric heaters engineered for industrial processes and environments, advanced gas and liquid filtration systems and highly efficient heat transfer systems for rail track and switch equipment; and 4 Thermon Power Solutions, which includes equipment for temporary electric power distribution and lighting products used in energy infrastructure construction projects and maintenance turnaround projects. Electric Heat Tracing We provide and manufacture all services and comp1nts for the installation and operation of an electric heat tracing system, including heating cables, control and monitoring systems, panel and skid assemblies, project engineering and management services and construction and field services. We customize these products to fit the specific requirements of each client's facility. We offer various electric heating cables, including conductive polymer self regulating heating cables, power limiting cables, constant wattage heating cables and MI high temperature heating cables. Self regulating heating cables Our self regulating heating cables are built with proprietary advance polymer compounds that leverage the latest material technology. They are flexible cut to length heading cables engineered to inherently increase or decrease heat output as pipe or vessel temperature changes. BSX self regulating cables are designed to provide freeze protection or process temperature maintenance to metallic and non metallic piping, vessels and equipment. HTSX self regulating heating cable is suitable for heat tracing applications involving crude oil and most chemicals. USX offers ultra high temperature self regulating heat tracing cable that is both easy to install and provides industry leading performance and reliability. Power limiting and constant watt heating cables Power limiting and constant watt heating cables are flexible parallel resistance cables used to heat piping in lengths longer than 500 feet. Such intermediate lengths of pipe are commonly found in pipe racks that connect process units within a plant. These heaters allow longer lengths between power supply points than self regulating cables. HPT cables offer a power limiting feature along with larger power bus wires to allow delivery of an increased heat output over that found with self regulating cables. TEK HTEK and MIQ cables The TEK and HTEK series resistance, constant watt heating cables are used where circuit lengths exceed the limitations of parallel resistance heating cables. By using series constant watt heating cables, a single power supply point can energize circuit lengths up to 12,000 feet. MIQ high performance mineral insulated heating cables made without polymers and are used for the highest temperature maintenance, temperature exposure and or watt density applications that exceed the limitations of thermoplastic insulated cables. MIQ cables are composed of a high nickel chromium alloy sheath, which is well suited for high temperature service and offers high resistance to stress corrosion in chloride, acid, salt and alkaline environments. ThermTrac TM long line heating systems A ThermTrac skin effect system provides a cost effective alternative to conventional resistance heat tracing on long pipelines by eliminating the need for an extensive power distribution system. A ThermTrac system is designed to heat a pipeline in excess of 15 miles long from a single power point. The versatility of the system makes it well suited for temperature maintenance, freeze protection and heat up applications. The system generates heat by the resistance of the electrical current flowing through both the conductor and the inner skin of a heat tube. Steam Heating Solutions In 1954, we began manufacturing heat transfer compounds that greatly improved the heat delivery of steam tracing systems. Today, in addition to the broad range of heat transfer compounds, we also offer steam tracers and tubing bundles that provide our customers with comprehensive steam tracing solutions. We manufacture our heat transfer compounds in various configurations so that they can be applied to different surfaces, which increases the heat transfer rate of steam or fluid tracers. Our heat transfer compounds create an efficient thermal connection between the heat tracing system and the process equipment. Through the elimination of air voids, heat is directed into the pipe wall primarily through conduction rather than convection and radiation. This requires fewer tracing pipes to maintain specified temperature requirements, substantially reducing operating and investment cost. Steam tracing offers the most cost effective solution for certain heavy oil and natural gas processing applications. We have also patented our SafeTrace steam tracing products for use in applications with stringent temperature requirements. Controls, Monitoring and Software Our solution includes smart, connected devices and software systems for the control and management of a customer heat trace system. We offer a range of TraceNet control products from a single point controller to a high capacity multi point control panel. All our controllers and panels can be ne2rked together via wired or wireless communication into a large 5 control solution with capacity to manage over 30,000 heat trace circuits within the same customer facility. Our systems can be integrated with a plant central data management and control system. Our controls and plant management software are built upon internet of things (IOT) technology that can be deployed locally within the secure plant environment. Our smart devices utilize the latest touch technology and industry leading intuitive user interfaces. Users familiar with modern mobile ph1s and tablets find our latest controllers intuitive to learn and use because of the similarities. These technologies also form a platform for offering easy automatic upgrades and additional value added services. We believe our control solutions are the most advanced, reliable and easy to use monitoring solutions in the marketplace. Instrumentation We specialize in pre insulated and heat traced tubing bundles with accessories that offer a complete instrument heating system. Our complete range of products includes both electric and steam heated bundles containing various types of tubing (such as copper, stainless steel and polymer) and insulation to meet the needs of process and environmental applications. Such applications include transporting samples of gas or liquid in our customized, temperature controlled tubing bundles to an instrument that typically performs an analysis for purposes of process management or ensuring compliance with internal requirements or applicable environmental laws and regulations. Project Services As a manufacturer and global expert in process heating solutions, our EPC and end user customers often times rely on Thermon to deliver a range of project services, which may include Engineering and design Procurement and project management services Turnkey construction installation Recurring facility assessment or audit Maintenance services Our customers rely on Thermon design and engineering expertise on projects around the world. These services are combined with our heat tracing and process heating products under 1 contract to deliver an integrated solution that improves the overall value proposition for the customer. By delivering design drawings in conjunction with early project specifications, we can address our customer needs for design optimization studies, product selection assistance and computer generated drawing packages. Often these are new facilities or Greenfield projects but they may also include upgrades or expansions and maintenance projects where our existing customers are upgrading their facilities. Project services are important to our business model and growth strategy to secure Greenfield contracts that both establish and enhance new and existing customer relationships. Our services are automated by custom software technology. We have invested over years to develop software that assists our experts in the design, specification, and automatic creation of CAD drawings. Our project engineering staff empowered with this software technology can execute the largest projects, including the creation of thousands of drawings, accurately and with efficiency that cannot be matched by manpower al1 Project services also include full turnkey solutions whereby we contract to install a complete heat tracing or process heating solution. We refer to this as our construction business which is primarily located in the southern United States near many of our customers in the downstream and mid stream petroleum, chemical and power generation industries. Thermon Heating Systems Products THS develops, designs and manufactures the following high quality and durable advanced industrial heating and filtration solutions Environmental heating (branded as Ruffneck and Catadyne ) which provides electric or gas powered space heating for both hazardous and non hazardous areas; 6 Process heating (branded as Caloritech ) provides a myriad of highly engineered heating products to multiple end markets with the purpose of heating and maintaining a process fluid at specified temperatures. Some products also serve the transportation sector with both radiant and convection style heating; Filtration (branded as 3L Filters ) which provides highly specialized filtration solutions for the most stringent environments, including the nuclear industry; and Transportation (branded as Hellfire , ArcticSense and other) provides heating applications to both rolling stock (rail cars) and rail infrastructure (track and switch). Thermon Power Solutions Thermon Power Solutions products are designed to provide a safe and efficient means of supplying temporary electrical power distribution and lighting at energy infrastructure facilities for new construction and during maintenance and turnaround projects at operating facilities. Thermon Power Solutions products include power distribution panels, master slave sub panels, power cords and lighting fixtures and are sold to end users operating in many of the same markets as our core thermal solutions, including heavy industrial settings, oil and gas refining and upgrading, power generation plants, petrochemical production facilities and mining operations. A number of these products are engineered to order based on proprietary designs. Thermon Power Solutions products are designed around the "plug and play" concept and differentiated from others in the industry through unique safety features that include arc flash protection i.e. , protecting users while making and breaking connections under electrical load, and offering ground fault protection. Certain products are certified to safely operate in hazardous areas such as live plant environments that process combustible chemicals and materials. The suite of Thermon Power Solutions products is designed to allow for quick reconfigurations of electrical power distribution panels to meet the changing needs of contractors as work moves from 1 phase to the next during construction and facility maintenance operations. These features help our customers save considerable time on the job site and realize significant cost savings while maintaining the highest level of safety. We believe we will be able to leverage our existing global sales force to further expand the reach of Sumac's product offerings. Manufacturing and Operations We have ten manufacturing facilities on 3 continents. We manufacture the products that generate a majority of our total sales at our principal facility in San Marcos, Texas including flexible heating cables, control systems and tubing bundles. Our facilities are highly automated, which reduces labor costs. Our facilities incorporate numerous manufacturing processes that utilize computer controlled equipment and laser technology. We maintain a ready supply of spare parts and have on site personnel trained to repair and perform preventative maintenance on our specialized equipment, reducing the likelihood of long term interruptions at our manufacturing facilities. Our manufacturing facilities are equipped to provide us with maximum flexibility to manufacture our products efficiently and with short lead times. This in turn allows for lower inventory levels and faster responses to customer demands. Our flexible heat cable products are manufactured in San Marcos, Texas. The manufacturing building has approximately 48,000 square feet of floor space, including offices. The facility has excess capacity and will support growth of our primary heat cable sales to an aggregate revenue capacity of $400 to $500 million, depending on pricing and product mix. Our electronic cross linking facility, which we refer to as our "ECLF," is also located at the San Marcos facility. Cross linking enhances the thermal, chemical and electrical stability of our low temperature self regulating heater cables. By performing cross linking in house, we condense the overall manufacturing cycle by approximately six weeks. This enhances our ability to ensure a high level of product quality and to better control the production process. Our pre insulated tubing products are manufactured in our facilities in San Marcos and the Netherlands. The majority of our pre insulated tubing product is custom ordered and made to customers' specifications in a 2 part process. The thermal insulation is first applied over the heating cable and process tubing, and a protective plastic outer jacket is extruded onto the bundle to protect the insulation. Our MI cable manufacturing facility in Orillia, Canada gives us adequate capacity to service the demands of clients in Canada in a time efficient manner. MI cable is well suited for high temperature applications and harsh, arctic environments. 7 THS products are currently fabricated at four THS facilities in North America Edmonton, Oakville, and Orillia in Canada, and Denver in the United States. THS maintains state of the art facilities and maintains several recognized facility certifications. Thermon Power Solutions products are primarily fabricated at a facility in Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada. Our customer base for Thermon Power Solutions has historically been in the oil sands region of Alberta, Canada, but has expanded its presence in the U.S. gulf coast region with the addition of fabrication capacity at our San Marcos, Texas facility. In 2017, we completed construction of our newest manufacturing facility in Russia. This facility has begun local production of key products in the greater Moscow region. The new production facility, approximately 20,300 square feet, focuses on manufacturing, fabrication, packaging and quality control of high temperature self regulating heating cables, low temperature self regulation heating cables, series constant watt cables, mineral insulated heating circuits, power and splice boxes, mechanical thermostats, electronic control modules, heat tracing kits and accessories, and THS Ruffneck heaters. The facility has helped us better serve our customers in the region through a comprehensive local suite of heat tracing products and services, including sales support, logistics, engineering, technical support, project management, and field services for electric and steam heat tracing, as well as other industrial process heating applications. We believe Russia and the adjacent Eurasian countries represent a very important and promising market opportunity for Thermon, and the new production facility is a key strategic investment. Our capital investment for the new facility was $10 million. We maintain quality control testing standards in all of our manufacturing operations and perform various quality control checks on our products during the manufacturing process. We believe that our highly automated manufacturing process and multiple quality control checkpoints create high levels of operational efficiency. Purchasing Strategy Our critical raw materials include polymers, graphite, copper and stainless steel. For most of these materials, we purchase from multiple suppliers in order to avoid any potential disruption of our manufacturing process. For a small number of raw material Item that require specific quality specifications, we have single source supply arrangements. We manage the inherent supply risk through purchase contracts and the maintenance of increased safety stock levels at all times. We evaluate pricing and performance of all suppliers annually. For our low volume custom built electronic controller comp1nts, we select a single supplier based on past performance reliability and monitor the process closely as volumes are too low to divide this product over multiple suppliers. Our purchase specifications are usually based on industry or manufacturer standards. Testing of the raw materials is performed and documented by our suppliers and is reviewed by us at the time of receipt. Distribution Our primary distribution centers are located in San Marcos, Texas, Calgary, Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta and the Netherlands. Inventory is typically shipped directly from these distribution centers to customers, the construction site or our regional sales agents or distributors. Our sales agents may maintain "safety stocks" of core products to service the immediate MRO UE requirements of customers who are time sensitive and cannot wait for delivery from 1 of the central distribution centers. In the United States, a ne2rk of agents maintains safety stocks of core products. In Canada, customers are serviced from the central distribution center in Calgary. THS maintains a sufficient supply of inventoried catalog stores at all five THS locations to quickly service customers' needs. Highly customizable engineered products are primarily manufactured out of the Oakville, Canada location. In Europe, customers are serviced from the central distribution center in the Netherlands. In Asia, safety stock of materials are kept in Yokohama, Japan; Seoul, Korea; Shanghai, China; Pune, India; and Melbourne, Australia. Safety stocks are also warehoused in Moscow, Russia, Mexico City and Mexico. Customers We serve a broad base of large multinational customers, many of which we have served for more than 60 years. We have a diversified revenue mix with thousands of customers. N1 of our customers represented more than 10% of total revenue in fiscal 2020 . Sales and Marketing Our direct sales force is focused on positioning us with major end users and EPC companies during the development phase of Greenfield projects with the goal of providing reliable, cost effective process heating solutions. We utilize a ne2rk of more than 100 independent sales agents and distributors in over 30 countries to provide local support to customer facilities for MRO UE. We actively participate in the growth and development of the domestic and international electrical standards established in the countries in which we sell products. We believe that we have established credibility as a reliable provider of 8 high quality process heating products. In addition, we believe that our registered trademarks in the United States and numerous additional brand names are recognized globally, giving us excellent brand recognition. Standards and Certifications Thermon research and development practices ensure our product designs are validated to market requirements and verified to comply with applicable industry standards. We continually test our products through a quality control process to demonstrate they can withstand harsh operating environments. They are subjected to various tests, including heat output, thermal stability and long term aging, with the goal of producing products capable of performing at or beyond the expectations of our customers. All products are further tested and certified for global use by various approval agencies, such as UL, CSA, FM, and ETL to industry leading international standards. In order to support the design and development of industrial products rated for operation in potentially hazardous environments, Thermon holds quality system approvals which employ the appropriate oversight requirements. To support the international business, Thermon is audited annually by an Ex Certification Body such as DEKRA, and we hold a Quality Assurance Notification and Quality Assurance Report to IEC ISO 80079 34. To support the North American business, Thermon is audited quarterly by many nationally recognized test labs including but not limited to UL, CSA, FM, and ETL to OSHA and Standards Council of Canada requirements. In addition, Thermon also pursues various regional and maritime certifications such as DNV, ABS, EAC, KOSHA and many more. All these oversight requirements are in addition to ISO 9001, and allow Thermon to continue to produce safe, reliable products certified for operating in potentially hazardous environments. Over the last 3 decades Thermon has made significant investments to actively participate in standardization at the national and international level. We are active in several committees such as the National Electrical Code (NEC), Canadian Electrical Code (CEC), American National Standards Institute (ANSI), National Electrical Equipment Manufacturers Association (NEMA), and the International Electro technical Committee (IEC). We leverage our extensive expertise and knowledge in industrial process heating technology to continually improve the applicable standards of our industry. Competition The global industrial electric heat tracing industry is fragmented and consists of more than 30 companies, which typically only serve discrete local markets and provide a limited service offering. We believe that we are the second largest participant in the industrial electric heat tracing market and 1 of only a few solutions providers with a comprehensive suite of products and services, global capabilities and local on site presence. Our most significant competitor is nVent Electric plc (NYSE NVT) Following the THS transaction in October 2017, we entered the broader industrial process heating market. The industrial process heating market, which includes industrial heat tracing, tends to be fairly fragmented with several smaller companies serving discrete local markets with limited offerings. Our competitors vary by end market, but generally we view nVent Electric, NIBE, Watlow and Chromalox as competitors in various areas across the spectrum of end markets we now serve. Industrial process heating providers differentiate themselves through value added services, long term customer relationship management and the ability to provide a full range of solutions. We differentiate ourselves from local providers by a global footprint, a full suite of products and services and a track record with some of the largest multinational energy, chemical processing, power and EPC companies in the world. In addition, we are almost entirely dedicated to providing thermal solutions and complementary products and services whereas some of our competitors' thermal solutions operations constitute only 1 of numerous operating segments. Intellectual Property and Technology The industrial process heating industry, as well as the complementary markets where we intend to expand, are highly competitive and subject to the introduction of innovative techniques and services using new technologies. While we have patented some of our products and processes, we historically have not relied upon patents to protect our design, manufacturing processes or products, and our patents are not material to our operations or business. Instead, we rely significantly on maintaining the confidentiality of our trade secrets, manufacturing know how, other proprietary rights and other information related to our operations. Accordingly, we require all employees to sign a nondisclosure agreement to protect our trade secrets, business strategy and other proprietary information. We rely on registered and unregistered trademarks in the United States and abroad and have many recognized brand names. 9 Research and Development Our research and development activities are focused on identifying new technologies to enhance our industrial process heating solutions through identifying opportunities to maximize product reliability and reduce the customer's total cost of ownership, which consists of capital expenses, maintenance costs and energy costs. Current product development initiatives include polymer research and continued advancement of integrated control and monitoring systems. Software development activities include advanced heat tracing ne2rk monitoring communication software and engineering design software initiatives. Employees As of March 31, 2020 , we employed approximately 1,335 persons on a full time basis worldwide and retained approximately 201 independent contractors. We have never experienced any organized work stoppage or strike. Approximately 2% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We consider our employee relations to be good. Governmental Regulation Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to complex United States and foreign laws governing, among others, anti corruption matters, export controls, economic sanctions, anti boycott rules, currency exchange controls and transfer pricing rules. These laws are administered, among others, the U.S. Department of Justice, the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service, or the "IRS," Customs and Border Protection, the Bureau of Industry and Security, or "BIS," the Office of Antiboycott Compliance, or "OAC," and the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or "OFAC," as well as the counterparts of these agencies in foreign countries. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws. Despite our training and compliance programs, no assurances can be made that we will be found to be operating in full compliance with, or be able to detect every violation of, any such laws. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Environmental Compliance Our operations and properties are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances or wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the emission of greenhouse gases, and workplace health and safety. Certain environmental laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, impose joint and several liability for cleanup costs, without regard to fault, on persons who have disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment. In addition, we could become liable to third parties for damages resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous substances into the environment. Some of our sites are affected by soil and groundwater contamination relating to historical site operations, which could require us to incur expenses to investigate and remediate the contamination in compliance with environmental laws. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. A failure to obtain, maintain, and comply with these permit requirements could result in substantial penalties, including facility shutdowns. From time to time, we could be subject to requests for information, notices of violation, and or investigations initiated by environmental regulatory agencies relating to our operations and properties. Violations of environmental and health and safety laws can result in substantial penalties, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations, and facility shutdowns. Environmental and health and safety laws may change rapidly and have tended to become more stringent over time. As a result, we could incur costs for past, present, or future failure to comply with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. In addition, we could become subject to potential regulations concerning the emission of greenhouse gasses, and while the effect of such future regulations cannot be determined at this time, they could require us to incur substantial costs in order to achieve and maintain compliance. In the ordinary course of business, we may be held responsible for any environmental damages we may cause to our customers' premises. Seasonality For information on seasonality, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Seasonality," which is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1 Backlog For information on backlog, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Revenue," which is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1 10 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors address the material risks concerning our business. If any of the risks discussed in this annual report were to occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operation and our ability to service our debt could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. Some statements in this annual report, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled "Forward Looking Statements." Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Macroeconomic and Industry Risks The outbreak of the novel strain of coronavirus (COVID 19) and the measures taken in response thereto could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the first several months of 2020, the COVID 19 coronavirus pandemic has caused significant volatility in global economy and has raised the prospect of an extended global recession. Public health problems resulting from COVID 19 and precautionary measures instituted by governments and businesses to mitigate its spread, including travel restrictions and quarantines, could contribute to a general slowdown in the global economy, adversely impact the businesses of our customers, suppliers and distribution partners, and disrupt our operations. For example, precautionary measures instituted by government authorities in Russia and South Africa in response to the COVID 19 pandemic have required us to temporarily suspend operations at our manufacturing facilities in such jurisdictions. Changes in our operations in response to COVID 19 or employee illnesses resulting from the pandemic may result in inefficiencies or delays, including delays in sales and product development efforts and additional costs related to business continuity initiatives, that cannot be fully mitigated through succession planning, employees working remotely or teleconferencing technologies. Additionally, COVID 19 could negatively affect our internal controls over financial reporting as a portion of our workforce is required to work from home, potentially requiring new processes, procedures, and controls. A prolonged economic downturn due to the COVID 19 pandemic could result in reduced demand for our products and services. The severity and longevity of the COVID 19 pandemic may cause customers to suspend their decisions on using our products and or services and give rise to significant changes in regional and global economic conditions that could delay or interfere with the capital spending of our customers. While the full extent and impact of the pandemic cannot be reasonably estimated at this time, it could have a material impact on our consolidated business, results of operations and financial condition in our fiscal year ending March 31, 2021 and beyond. The markets we serve are subject to general economic conditions and cyclical demand, which could harm our business and lead to significant shifts in our results of operations from quarter to quarter that make it difficult to project long term performance. Our operating results have been and may in the future be adversely affected by general economic conditions and the cyclical pattern of certain industries in which our customers and end users operate. Demand for our products and services depends in large part upon the level of capital and maintenance expenditures by many of our customers and end users, in particular those in the energy, chemical processing and power generation industries, and firms that design and construct facilities for these industries. These customers' expenditures historically have been cyclical in nature and vulnerable to economic downturns. Prolonged periods of little or no economic growth could decrease demand for oil and gas which, in turn, could result in lower demand for our products and a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, this historically cyclical demand may lead to significant shifts in our results of operations from quarter to quarter, which limits our ability to make accurate long term predictions about our future performance. Suspensions and delays in large capital projects within the energy sector, especially in the United States and Canada, have adversely affected our results of operations in recent years. A sustained downturn in the energy industry, due to decreases in oil and gas prices or demand for oil and gas products, could further decrease demand for some of our products and services and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our revenue historically has been generated by end users in the oil and gas markets where we serve all 3 major categories of customers in the petroleum industry upstream exploration production, midstream transportation and downstream refining. The businesses of most of our customers in the energy industry are, to varying degrees, 11 cyclical and historically have experienced periodic downturns. Profitability in the energy industry is highly sensitive to supply and demand cycles and commodity prices, which historically have been volatile, and our customers in this industry have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during industry downturns. Customer project delays and cancellations may limit our ability to realize value from our backlog as expected and cause fluctuations in the timing or the amount of revenue earned and the profitability of our business in a particular period. In addition, such delays and cancellations may lead to significant fluctuations in results of operations from quarter to quarter, making it difficult to predict our financial performance on a quarterly basis. Demand for a significant portion of our products and services depends upon the level of capital expenditure by companies in the energy industry, which depends, in part, on energy prices, which are volatile. In recent years, we have experienced suspensions or delays in large capital projects within the energy sector, especially in the upstream exploration and production sector, and most notably in the United States and Canada. Pricing actions by Russia and Saudi Arabia in March of 2020 have resulted in a significant downturn in oil and gas commodity prices. The impact on oil and gas commodity markets has further been impacted by the reduction in demand caused by the precautionary measures instituted by governments and businesses to mitigate the spread of COVID 19. A sustained downturn in the capital expenditures of our customers, whether due to a decrease in the market price of oil and gas or demand for oil and gas products, may delay projects, decrease demand for our products and services and cause downward pressure on the prices we charge, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such downturns, including the perception that they might continue, could also have a significant negative impact on the market price of our common stock. As a global business, we are exposed to economic, political and other risks in a number of countries, which could materially reduce our revenues, profitability or cash flows or materially increase our liabilities. If we are unable to continue operating successfully in 1 or more foreign countries, it may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. For fiscal 2020, approximately 59% of our revenues were generated outside of the United States, and approximately 26% were generated outside of North America. In addition, 1 of our key growth strategies is to continue to expand our global footprint in emerging and high growth markets around the world, although we may not be successful in expanding our international business. Conducting business outside the U.S. subjects us to additional risks that may impact our revenues, profitability or cash flows or increase our liabilities, including the following changes in a specific country's or region's political, social or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; changes in trade relations between the United States and those foreign countries in which our customers and suppliers have operations, including protectionist measures such as tariffs, import or export licensing requirements and trade sanctions; restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries in, expand in and, if necessary, repatriate cash from, foreign jurisdictions; exchange controls and currency restrictions; the burden of complying with numerous and potentially conflicting legal requirements; potentially negative consequences from changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws; difficulty in staffing and managing (including ensuring compliance with internal policies and controls) geographically widespread operations; different regulatory regimes controlling the protection of our intellectual property; difficulty in the enforcement of contractual obligations in non U.S. jurisdictions and the collection of accounts receivable from foreign accounts; and transportation delays or interruptions. 1 or more of these factors could prevent us from successfully expanding our presence in international markets, could have an adverse effect on our revenues, profitability or cash flows or cause an increase in our liabilities. We may not 12 succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where we do business. In addition, the imposition of trade restrictions, economic sanctions or embargoes by the United States or foreign governments could adversely affect our future sales and results of operations. Business Risks Our backlog may fluctuate and a failure to deliver our backlog on time could affect our future sales, profitability and our relationships with our customers, and if we were to experience a material amount of modifications or cancellations of orders, our sales could be negatively impacted. Our backlog is comprised of the portion of firm signed purchase orders or other written contractual commitments received from customers that we have not recognized as revenue. Backlog may increase or decrease based on the addition of large multi year projects and their subsequent completion. Backlog may also be favorably or unfavorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations. The dollar amount of backlog as of March 31, 2020 was $105.4 million . The timing of our recognition of revenue out of our backlog is subject to a variety of factors that may cause delays, many of which, including fluctuations in our customers' delivery schedules, are beyond our control and difficult to forecast. Such delays may lead to significant fluctuations in results of operations from quarter to quarter, making it difficult to predict our financial performance on a quarterly basis. Further, while we have historically experienced few order cancellations and the amount of order cancellations has not been material compared to our total contract volume, if we were to experience a significant amount of cancellations of or reductions in purchase orders, it would reduce our backlog and, consequently, our future sales and results of operations. Our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for our backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, access to raw materials, an adequate and capable workforce, engineering expertise for certain projects, sufficient manufacturing capacity and, in some cases, our reliance on subcontractors. The availability of these factors may in some cases be subject to conditions outside of our control. A failure to deliver in accordance with our performance obligations may result in financial penalties and damage to existing customer relationships, our reputation and a loss of future bidding opportunities, which could cause the loss of future business and could negatively impact our future sales and results of operations. If we are unable to effectively integrate the THS product lines into our existing sales and marketing channels, our future sales and revenue growth could be adversely affected. With the completion of the THS acquisition in October 2017, we entered into a new product line. THS is engaged in industrial process heating, focused on the development and production of advanced heating and filtration solutions for industrial and hazardous area applications, and serves clients in the energy, petrochemical, electrical distribution, power, transit and industrial end markets globally. While THS has similar economic characteristics as the core Thermon process heating operations, it represents a new product line that exposes us to new end markets relative to our legacy heat tracing products and services. We are in the process of integrating THS into our existing Thermon sales and marketing operations. If we are unable to successfully combine and integrate the THS product lines with our existing Thermon operations, we may be unable to realize the anticipated synergies and financial benefits from the THS acquisition in the time frame that we expect, or at all, and our future sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our current or future indebtedness could impair our financial condition and reduce the funds available to us for other purposes. Our debt agreements impose certain operating and financial restrictions, with which failure to comply could result in an event of default that could adversely affect our results of operations. We have substantial indebtedness. At March 31, 2020, we had $176.0 million of outstanding indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund the interest payments on our outstanding borrowings under our credit facility and other debt service obligations and keep us in compliance with the covenants under our debt agreements or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot guarantee that we would be able to (i) take any of these actions or that these actions would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, which may impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs; (ii) obtain standby letters of credit, bank guarantees or performance bonds required to bid on or secure certain customer contracts; (iii) make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances; (iv) withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general; (v) engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our interest; and (vi) plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies. 13 If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, or if we breach any of the covenants in our debt agreements, we will be in default under such agreements and, as a result, our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our credit facility could terminate their commitments to lend us m1y and foreclose against the assets securing our borrowings, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries may incur significant additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness. Although the terms of our debt agreements contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be significant. Incurring additional indebtedness could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness, including our ability to service our indebtedness. Additional liabilities related to taxes, potential tax adjustments or changes to tax policy in foreign jurisdictions could adversely impact our financial results, financial condition and cash flow. We are subject to tax and related obligations in the jurisdictions in which we operate or do business, including state, local, federal and foreign taxes. The taxing laws of the various jurisdictions in which we operate or do business often are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Tax authorities may challenge tax positions that we take or historically have taken, and may assess taxes where we have not made tax filings or may audit the tax filings we have made and assess additional taxes, as they have d1 from time to time in the past. Some of these assessments may be substantial, and may involve the imposition of substantial penalties and interest. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and in establishing appropriate reserves. The resolutions of our tax positions are unpredictable. The payment of substantial additional taxes, penalties or interest resulting from any assessments could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Our future revenue depends in part on our ability to bid and win new contracts. Our failure to effectively obtain future contracts could adversely affect our profitability. Our future revenue and overall results of operations require us to successfully bid on new contracts and, in particular, contracts for large Greenfield projects, which are frequently subject to competitive bidding processes. Our revenue from major projects depends in part on the level of capital expenditures in our principal end markets, including the energy, chemical processing and power generation industries. With the recent disruptions to many of our customers end markets caused by the COVID 19 pandemic and the recent volatility in oil and gas commodity markets, we anticipate we could experience decreased levels of profitability which could adversely impact our financial results. In addition, if we fail to replace completed or canceled large Greenfield projects with new order volume of the same magnitude, our backlog will decrease and our future revenue and financial results may be adversely affected. The number of such projects we win in any year fluctuates, and is dependent upon the number of projects available and our ability to bid successfully for such projects. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which is affected by a number of factors, such as competitive position, market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a client may require us to provide a bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. If negative market conditions continue, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or required governmental approvals, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely affect our profitability. If we are unable to successfully develop and improve our products and successfully implement new technologies in the markets that we serve, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our future success will depend upon our continued investment in research and development of new products, improvement and enhancement of our existing product offerings and our ability to continue to achieve new technological advances in the process heating industry. Our inability to continue to successfully develop and market new products or our inability to implement technological advances on a pace consistent with that of our competitors could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be unable to compete successfully in the highly competitive markets in which we operate. We operate in domestic and international markets and compete with highly competitive domestic and international manufacturers and service providers. The fragmented nature of the industrial electric heat tracing industry and the similarly fragmented nature of the industrial process heating industry makes the market for our products and services highly competitive. A number of our direct and indirect competitors are major multinational corporations, some of which have substantially greater technical, financial and marketing resources, and additional competitors may enter these markets at any time. In addition, we compete against many regional and lower cost manufacturers. Our competitors may develop products that are superior to our 14 products, develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services, adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements, or attempt to compete based primarily on price, localized expertise and local relationships. If we are unable to continue to differentiate our products and services or if we experience an increase in competition, it may cause us to lose market share or compel us to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could result in a reduction in our revenues and results of operations. Our gross margins depend, in part, on our revenue mix. Although Greenfield project revenues, which provide for an ongoing stream of future high margin MRO UE revenues, are critical to our success and growth, increased Greenfield project revenues can adversely affect our gross margin. Typically, both Greenfield and MRO UE customers require our products as well as our engineering and construction services. We tend to experience lower margins from our design optimization, engineering, installation and maintenance services than we do from sales of our heating cable, tubing bundle and control system products. We also tend to experience lower margins from our outsourced products, such as electrical switch gears and transformers, than we do from our manufactured products. Accordingly, our gross margins are impacted by our mix of products and services. Although our product mix varies from period to period due to a variety of factors, during fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, Greenfield revenue has accounted for approximately 40% of our total revenue. Although Greenfield project revenues, which provide for an ongoing stream of future high margin MRO UE revenues, are critical to our long term success and growth, a revenue mix higher in lower margin Greenfield project revenues relative to historical levels could adversely affect our gross margins and results of operations. Our business strategy includes acquiring smaller, value added companies and making investments that complement our existing business. These acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Acquisitions and investments may involve cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; difficulties in realization of expected synergies and revenue creation or cross selling opportunities; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of acquired companies or of us; and assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. We have limited experience in acquiring or integrating other businesses or making investments or undertaking joint ventures with others. It may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. Any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition if they are unsuccessful and any acquisitions or investments ultimately result in impairment charges. Volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may not be able to effectively manage our exchange rate and or currency transaction risks. Volatility in currency exchange rates may decrease our revenue and profitability, adversely affect our liquidity and impair our financial condition. While we have entered into hedging instruments to manage our exchange rate risk as it relates to certain intercompany balances with certain of our foreign subsidiaries, these hedging activities do not eliminate exchange rate risk, nor do they reduce risk associated with total foreign sales. Our non U.S. subsidiaries generally sell their products and services in the local currency, but obtain a significant amount of their products from our facilities located elsewhere, primarily the United States, Canada or Europe. In particular, significant fluctuations in the Canadian Dollar, the Russian Ruble, the Euro or the Pound Sterling against the U.S. Dollar could adversely affect our results of operations. During fiscal 2020 and 2019, the value of the U.S. Dollar strengthened in relation to the principal non U.S. currencies from which we derive revenue, which negatively impacted revenue by $5.0 million and $4.6 million, respectively. Any further appreciation in the U.S. Dollar relative to such non U.S. currencies could continue to have a significant negative impact on our results of operations in future periods. We also bid for certain foreign projects in U.S. Dollars or Euros. If the U.S. Dollar or Euro strengthen relative to the value of the local currency, we may be less competitive in 15 bidding for those projects. In addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the U.S. and margins on sales of products that include comp1nts obtained from suppliers located outside of the U.S. See Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" for additional information regarding our foreign currency exposure relating to operations. Because our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. Dollars and we generate a substantial amount of our sales and earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into U.S. Dollars can result in a significant decrease in the amount of those sales and earnings. Fluctuations in currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar may make it more difficult to perform period to period comparisons of our reported results of operations. In addition, the net asset values of foreign operations are adjusted upward and downward based on currency exchange rate fluctuations and are reported in our foreign currency translation adjustment as part of other comprehensive income in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. We have significant goodwill and other intangible assets and future impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial results. We test goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, and more frequently if circumstances warrant, by comparing the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units to their respective carrying values. As of March 31, 2020, our goodwill and other intangible assets balance was $3025 million , which represented 49% of our total assets. Long term declines in projected future cash flows could result in future goodwill and other intangible asset impairments. For example, we recognized a pre tax, non cash impairment charge of $17 million for the year ended March 31, 2016 related to the goodwill and other intangible assets of Unitemp. Because of the significance of our goodwill and other intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If we lose our senior management or other key employees or cannot successfully execute succession plans, our business may be adversely affected. Competition for qualified management and key technical and sales personnel in our industry is intense. Our ability to successfully operate and grow our global business and implement our strategies is largely dependent on the efforts, abilities and services of our senior management and other key employees. If we lose the services of our senior management or other key employees for any reason and are unable to find qualified replacements with comparable experience in the industry, our business could be negatively affected. We rely heavily on trade secrets to gain a competitive advantage in the market and the unenforceability of our nondisclosure agreements may adversely affect our operations. The heat tracing industry is highly competitive and subject to the introduction of innovative techniques and services using new technologies. We rely significantly on maintaining confidential our trade secrets and other information related to our operations. Accordingly, we require all employees to sign a nondisclosure agreement to protect our trade secrets, business strategy and other proprietary information. If the provisions of these agreements are found unenforceable in any jurisdiction in which we operate, the disclosure of our proprietary information may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Even where the provisions are enforceable, the confidentiality clauses may not provide adequate protection of our trade secrets and proprietary information in every such jurisdiction and our trade secrets and proprietary information could be compromised as a result. Intellectual property challenges may hinder our ability to develop, engineer and market our products, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to successfully avoid, manage, defend and litigate intellectual property matters. Patents, non compete agreements, proprietary technologies, trade secrets, customer relationships, trademarks, trade names and brand names are important to our business. Intellectual property protection, however, may not preclude competitors from developing products similar to ours or from challenging our trade names or products. Our pending patent applications and our pending copyright and trademark registration applications may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. In addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States. Participants in our markets may use challenges to intellectual property as a means to compete. Patent and trademark challenges increase our costs to develop, engineer and market our products. We may need to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights and we may or may not be able to detect infringement by third parties. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights or register new patents, our competitive position could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 In addition, while we have not faced intellectual property infringement claims from others in recent years, any dispute or litigation involving intellectual property could be costly and time consuming due to the complexity and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation. Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. In addition, as a result of such claims, we may lose our rights to utilize critical technology, may be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or may be required to redesign our products at a substantial cost, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Operational Risks Breaches of our information technology systems could occur that materially damage business partner and customer relations and subject us to significant reputational, financial, legal and operational consequences. As a company we store company, customer, employee and business partner information, which may include, among other information, trade secrets, names, addresses, ph1 numbers, email addresses, tax identification numbers, payment account information and customer facility information. We could be subject to sophisticated and targeted attacks attempting to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage, including via the introduction of computer viruses or malware and cyber attacks. We require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. These security measures are subject to potential third party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance and faulty password management, among other limitations. Third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. We may not be able to anticipate, detect or recognize threats to our system or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches. If we were to experience a breach of our systems and were unable to protect sensitive data, such a breach could, among other things risk exposing our confidential manufacturing processes and other trade secreted information that may lead to new and increased entrants and competitors in our business or cause other damage to the business; expose our customers' facilities and projects to increased safety and security risk; materially damage business partner and customer relationships; impact our reputation in the markets in which we compete for business; adversely impact our financial results and expose us to potential risk of loss or litigation; and or require us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. A material disruption at any of our manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our financial performance and results of operations. If operations at any of our manufacturing facilities were to be disrupted as a result of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, pandemics, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, adverse weather conditions, labor disputes or other reasons, we may be unable to fill customer orders and meet customer demand for our products, which could adversely affect our financial performance and results of operations. For example, our marketing and research & development buildings, located on the same campus as our former corporate headquarters and primary manufacturing facility in San Marcos, Texas, were destroyed by a tornado in January 2007. In addition, precautionary measures recently instituted by government authorities in Russia and South Africa in response to the COVID 19 pandemic have required us to temporarily suspend operations at our manufacturing facilities in such jurisdictions. Interruptions in production, in particular at our manufacturing facilities in San Marcos, Texas, or Calgary, Edmonton, Oakville or Orillia, Canada, at which we manufacture the majority of our products, could increase our costs and reduce our sales. Any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to fill customer orders, which could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. We maintain property damage insurance that we believe to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. However, any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance and results of operations. 17 Our dependence on subcontractors and third party suppliers could adversely affect our results of operations. We often rely on third party subcontractors, suppliers and manufacturers to complete our projects. To the extent we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire supplies or materials, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion or at a profit may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for these goods and services exceeds the amount we have estimated in bidding for fixed price contracts, we could experience losses on these contracts. In addition, if a subcontractor or supplier is unable to deliver its services or materials according to the negotiated contract terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition or over commitment of its resources, we may be required to purchase the services or materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce the profit we realize or result in a loss on a project for which the services or materials were needed. We may lose m1y on fixed price contracts, and we are exposed to liquidated damages charges in many of our customer contracts. We often agree to provide products and services under fixed price contracts, including our turnkey solutions. Under these contracts, we are typically responsible for all cost overruns, other than the amount of any cost overruns resulting from requested changes in order specifications. Our actual costs and any gross profit realized on these fixed price contracts could vary from the estimated costs on which these contracts were originally based. This may occur for various reasons, including errors in estimates or bidding, changes in availability and cost of labor and raw materials and unforeseen technical and logistical challenges, including with managing our geographically widespread operations and use of third party subcontractors, suppliers and manufacturers in many countries. These variations and the risks inherent in our projects may result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance could have a material adverse impact on our project revenue and operating results. In addition, many of our customer contracts, including fixed price contracts, contain liquidated damages provisions for which we are responsible in the event that we fail to perform our obligations thereunder in a timely manner or in accordance with the agreed terms, conditions and standards. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our operational initiatives. In order to align our operational resources with our business strategies, operate more efficiently and control costs, we may periodically announce plans to restructure certain of our operations, such as consolidation of manufacturing facilities, transitions to cost competitive regions and product line rationalizations. We may also undertake restructuring actions and workforce reductions. Risks associated with these actions include delays in execution, additional unexpected costs, realization of fewer than estimated productivity improvements and adverse effects on employee morale. If these risks materialize, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits of such restructuring plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Legal and Regulatory Risks Due to the nature of our business, we may be liable for damages based on product liability claims. We are also exposed to potential indemnity claims from customers for losses due to our work or if our employees are injured performing services. We face a risk of exposure to legal claims in the event that the failure, use or misuse of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, death, bodily injury, property damage or economic loss. Although we maintain quality controls and procedures, we cannot be sure that our products will be free from defects. If any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to replace the product. In addition, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. Some of our products contain comp1nts manufactured by third parties, which may also have defects. In addition, if we are installing our products, we may be subject to claims that our installation has caused damage or loss. Our products are often installed in our customers' or end users' complex and capital intensive facilities involved in inherently hazardous or dangerous industries, including energy, chemical processing and power generation, where the potential liability from risk of loss could be substantial. Although we currently maintain product liability coverage, which we believe is adequate for the continued operation of our business, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or, if available, will be adequate to cover any potential liabilities. With respect to comp1nts manufactured by third party suppliers, the contractual indemnification that we seek from our third party suppliers may be insufficient to cover claims made against us. In the event that we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification, product liabilities and other claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Under our customer contracts, we often indemnify our customers from damages and losses they incur due to our work or services performed by us, as well as for losses our customers incur due to any injury or loss of life suffered by any of our 18 employees or our subcontractors' personnel occurring on our customer's property. Substantial indemnity claims may exceed the amount of insurance we maintain and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. We operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti corruption laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the FCPA ) and similar foreign anti corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to influence foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or obtaining an unfair advantage. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the global enforcement of anti corruption laws, with more frequent voluntary self disclosures by companies, aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the DOJ and the SEC resulting in record fines and penalties, increased enforcement activity by non U.S. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. Because many of our customers, sales channels and end users are involved in infrastructure construction and energy production, they are often subject to increased scrutiny by regulators. Our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti corruption laws. However, we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental corruption problems to some degree and where strict compliance with anti corruption laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our continued operation and expansion outside the United States, including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. Despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from unauthorized reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. In the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti corruption laws, including the FCPA, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in adverse effects on our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition. Our international operations and non U.S. subsidiaries are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations and, in particular, export control regulations or sanctions. Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to a complex system of laws and regulations, including regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Justice (the DOJ ), the SEC, the IRS, the U.S. Department of Treasury, the U.S. Department of State, Customs and Border Protection, Bureau of Industry and Security ( BIS ), Office of Anti Boycott Compliance ( OAC ) and Office of Foreign Asset Control ( OFAC ), as well as the counterparts of these agencies in foreign countries. While we believe we are in material compliance with these regulations and maintain programs intended to achieve compliance, we may currently or may in the future be in violation of these regulations. In 2009, we entered into settlement agreements with BIS and OFAC, and in 2010, we entered into a settlement agreement with OAC, in each case with respect to matters we voluntarily disclosed to such agencies. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd Frank Act") requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. Under the Dodd Frank Act, the SEC has adopted requirements for companies that use certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals , in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These regulations require companies to perform due diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. We are required to perform sufficient due diligence to determine whether such minerals are used in the manufacture of our products. The implementation of these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of such minerals if they are found to be used in the manufacture of our products. In addition, we incur costs to comply with conflict mineral disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins for these minerals and metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In such event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of the comp1nts of our products are certified as conflict mineral free. Any alleged or actual violations of these conflict mineral requirements may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties and may limit our ability to export our products or provide services outside the U.S. Additionally, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. In addition, our geographically widespread operations, coupled with our relatively smaller offices in many countries and our reliance on third party subcontractors, suppliers and manufacturers in the completion of our projects, make it more 19 difficult to oversee and ensure that all our offices and employees comply with our internal policies and control procedures. We have experienced immaterial employee theft in the past, and we cannot assure you that we can ensure our employees compliance with our internal control policies and procedures. Changes in U.S. and foreign government administrative policy, including changes to existing trade agreements and U.S. government sanctions, could have a material adverse effect on us. As a result of changes to U.S. and foreign government administrative policy, there may be changes to existing trade agreements, greater restrictions on free trade generally, significant increases in tariffs on goods imported into the U.S. particularly tariffs on products manufactured in China, Canada and Mexico, among other possible changes. Changes in U.S. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories and countries where we currently manufacture and sell products, and any resulting negative sentiments towards the U.S. as a result of such changes, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Currency fluctuations and the current geopolitical instability in Russia and Ukraine and related sanctions by the U.S. government against certain companies and individuals may hinder our ability to conduct business with potential or existing customers and vendors in these countries. We derived approximately 4%, 3% and 5% of our revenue from our subsidiary incorporated in Russia in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The escalation of geopolitical instability in Russia and Ukraine as well as currency fluctuations in the Russian Ruble could negatively impact our operations, sales, and future growth prospects in that region. The U.S. government has imposed sanctions through several executive orders restricting U.S. companies from conducting business with specified Russian and Ukrainian individuals and companies. While we believe that the executive orders currently do not preclude us from conducting business with our current customers or vendors in Russia, the sanctions imposed by the U.S. government may be expanded in the future to restrict us from engaging with them. If we are unable to conduct business with new or existing customers or vendors or pursue business opportunities in Russia or Ukraine, our business, including revenue, profitability and cash flows, and operations could be adversely affected. We cannot provide assurance that current sanctions or potential future changes in sanctions will not have a material impact on our operations in Russia and the Ukraine or on our financial results. The United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on economic conditions, financial markets and our business. Pursuant to legislation approved by the United Kingdom Parliament and the European Union Parliament in January 2020, the United Kingdom withdrew from the European Union effective as of January 31, 2020 on the terms of a withdrawal agreement agreed between the United Kingdom and the European Union in October 2019 (the Withdrawal Agreement ). The Withdrawal Agreement provides that the United Kingdom withdrawal is followed by a transition period , during which, in summary, the United Kingdom is not a member of the European Union but most European Union rules and regulations continue to apply to the United Kingdom. During the transition period, the United Kingdom and the European Union will seek to negotiate the terms of a long term trading relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union based on a Political Declaration agreed between the United Kingdom and the European Union in October 2019. The transition period provided for in the Withdrawal Agreement will expire on December 31, 2020 (unless both the United Kingdom and the European Union agree to extend the period of transition by 1 or 2 years). The political negotiation surrounding the terms of the United Kingdom withdrawal from the European Union has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union, including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply. Once the transition period expires, subject to the terms of any long term trading relationship agreed between the United Kingdom and the European Union, the United Kingdom will determine which European Union derived laws to replace or replicate. The United Kingdom withdrawal from the European Union has also given rise to calls for the governments of other European Union member states to consider withdrawal, while the United Kingdom withdrawal negotiation process has increased the risk of the possibility of a further referendum concerning Scotland independence from the rest of the United Kingdom. If no long term trading relationship is agreed between the United Kingdom and the European Union by the end of the transition period provided for in the Withdrawal Agreement, the United Kingdom membership of the European Union could ultimately terminate under a so called hard Brexit. Under this scenario, there could be increased costs from the imposition of tariffs on trade or non tariff barriers between the United Kingdom and European Union, shipping delays because of the need for customs inspections and temporary shortages of certain goods. Any of the foregoing might increase our cost of doing business 20 in the United Kingdom. In addition, trade and investment between the United Kingdom, the European Union and other countries would be impacted by the fact that the United Kingdom currently operates under tax and trade treaties concluded between the European Union and other countries. Following a hard Brexit , the United Kingdom would need to negotiate its own tax and trade treaties with other countries, as well as with the European Union. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global, regional and or national economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Any of these factors could depress economic activity, result in changes to currency exchange rates, tariffs, treaties, taxes, import export regulations, laws and other regulatory matters and the free movement of our employees, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows. In addition, if the U.S. dollar strengthens, our revenue denominated in foreign currencies such as the British Pound may be adversely affected when translated into U.S. dollars. Approximately 4% of our total revenues were generated in the United Kingdom for fiscal 2020. We are subject to numerous environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, as well as potential environmental liabilities, which may require us to make substantial expenditures. Our operations and properties are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances or wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites and workplace health and safety. As an owner or operator of real property, or generator of waste, we could become subject to liability for environmental contamination, regardless of whether we caused such contamination. Certain environmental laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, impose joint and several liability for cleanup costs, without regard to fault, on persons who have disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment. In addition, we could become liable to third parties for damages resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous substances into the environment. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. From time to time, we could be subject to requests for information, notices of violation, and or investigations initiated by environmental regulatory agencies relating to our operations and properties. Violations of environmental and health and safety laws can result in substantial penalties, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations, and facility shutdowns. Environmental and health and safety laws may change rapidly and have tended to become more stringent over time. As a result, we could incur costs for past, present, or future failure to comply with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. In addition, we could become subject to potential regulations concerning the emission of greenhouse gases, and while the effect of such future regulations cannot be determined at this time, they could require us to incur substantial costs in order to achieve and maintain compliance. In the ordinary course of business, we may be held responsible for any environmental damages we may cause to our customers' premises. The effects of climate change and any related regulation of greenhouse gases could have a negative impact on our business. Governments around the world are increasingly focused on enacting laws and regulations regarding climate change and regulation of greenhouse gases. Lawmakers and regulators in the jurisdictions where we operate have proposed or enacted regulations requiring reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and the restriction thereof, including increased fuel efficiency standards, carbon taxes or cap and trade systems, restrictive permitting, and incentives for renewable energy. In addition, efforts have been made and continue to be made in the international community toward the adoption of international treaties or protocols that would address global climate change issues and impose reductions of hydrocarbon based fuels, including plans developed in connection with the Paris climate conference in December 2015 and the Katowice climate conference in December 2018. Laws or regulations incentivizing or mandating the use of alternative energy sources such as wind power and solar energy have also been enacted in certain jurisdictions. Additionally, numerous large cities globally and several countries have adopted programs to mandate or incentivize the conversion from internal combustion engine powered vehicles to electric powered vehicles and placed restrictions on non public transportation. Such policies or other laws, regulations, treaties and international agreements related to greenhouse gases and climate change may negatively impact the price of oil relative to other energy sources, reduce demand for hydrocarbons, or otherwise unfavorably impact our customers in the oil and gas, power generation and petrochemical industries. To the extent our customers, particularly our energy and industrial customers, are subject to any of these or other similar proposed or newly enacted laws and regulations or impacted by the change in energy prices due to such laws and regulations, we are exposed to risks that the additional costs incurred by customers to comply with such laws and regulations or that the deterioration of customers financial results as a result of changing energy prices could impact our customers ability or desire to continue to operate at similar levels in certain jurisdictions as historically seen or as currently anticipated, which could negatively impact their demand for our products and services. These laws and regulations could also increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. The ultimate impact of greenhouse gas emissions related agreements, legislation and measures on our financial performance is highly 21 uncertain because we are unable to predict with certainty, for a multitude of individual jurisdictions, the outcome of political decision making processes and the variables and tradeoffs that inevitably occur in connection with such processes. In addition to potential impacts on our business resulting from climate change legislation or regulations, our business also could be negatively affected by climate change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns. An increase in severe weather patterns could result in damages to or loss of our manufacturing facilities, impact our ability to conduct our operations and or result in a disruption of our customers operations. In addition, volatility in weather patterns could exacerbate the cyclicality of demand for our heating products. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and will continue to fluctuate in the future. You should not rely on the results of any past quarter or quarters as an indication of future performance in our business operations or the price of our common stock. Factors that might cause our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter include, but are not limited to general economic conditions and cyclicality in the end markets we serve; the effects of the ongoing COVID 19 pandemic or other global pandemics or catastrophes; future growth of energy and chemical processing capital investments; a material disruption at any of our manufacturing facilities; delays in our customers' projects for which our products are a comp1nt; the timing of completion of large Greenfield projects; competition from various other sources providing similar heat tracing products and services, or other alternative technologies, to customers; and the seasonality of demand for MRO UE orders, which is typically highest during the second and third fiscal quarters. If our results of operations from quarter to quarter fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for holders to resell our common stock when they want or at prices that they find attractive. The price of our common stock on the NYSE constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; changes in investors' and analysts' perception of the business risks and conditions of our business or our competitors; our ability to meet the earnings estimates and other performance expectations of financial analysts or investors; unfavorable commentary or downgrades of our stock by equity research analysts; the emergence of new sales channels in which we are unable to compete effectively; disruption to our operations; fluctuations in the stock prices of our peer companies or in stock markets in general; and 22 general economic or political conditions, including the effects of the COVID 19 pandemic. In addition, in recent years, global equity markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons often unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. Anti takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult, or discouraging, an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions authorizing our board of directors, without further action by the stockholders, to issue blank check preferred stock; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; authorizing our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to amend our amended and restated bylaws; limiting the determination of the number of directors on our board of directors and the filling of vacancies or newly created seats on our board of directors to our board of directors then in office; and subject to certain exceptions, limiting our ability to engage in certain business combinations with an "interested stockholder" for a 3 year period following the time that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. These provisions, al1 or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of the Company or changes in our management. Though we have opted out of the Delaware anti takeover statute, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions that are similar to the Delaware anti takeover statute, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. Any provision of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock. Any future dividend payments are within the discretion of our board of directors or a duly authorized committee of the board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, financial condition, level of indebtedness, contractual restrictions with respect to payment of dividends, business opportunities, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In particular, our credit facility limits our ability to pay dividends from cash generated from operations. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our common stock. See Item 5, "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Dividend Policy." ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS N1 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES
