CIK: 1504461
Company Name: NGL ENERGY PARTNERS LP
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2020-06-01
Accession Number: 0001504461-20-000022


Item 1 Business Overview We are a diversified midstream energy partnership that transports, stores, markets and provides other logistics services for crude oil, natural gas liquids and refined petroleum products and we also transport, treat, recycle and dispose of produced water generated as part of the oil and gas production process. Originally formed in September 2010, we are a Delaware limited partnership and our business is currently organized into 3 business segments Crude Oil Logistics, Water Solutions and Liquids and Refined Products. Reportable Segments For the first 3 quarters of fiscal year 2020, we had four reportable segments Crude Oil Logistics, Water Solutions, Refined Products and Renewables, and Liquids. As a result of the sale of a large part of the assets that constituted the former Refined Products and Renewables reportable segment, we decided during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 that the remaining business within the former Refined Products and Renewables reportable segment will be aggregated with the prior Liquids reportable segment and form the current Liquids and Refined Products reportable segment. Operating results for the reportable segments have been recast for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 to reflect these changes. Our Crude Oil Logistics and Water Solutions reportable segments remain unchanged from what has been previously reported. The following is a description of our 3 reportable segments at March 31, 2020 . Our Crude Oil Logistics segment purchases crude oil from producers and marketers and transports it to refineries or for resale at pipeline injection stations, storage terminals, barge loading facilities, rail facilities, refineries, and other trade hubs, and provides storage, terminaling and transportation services through its owned assets. Our activities in this segment are supported by certain long term, fixed rate contracts which include minimum volume commitments on our pipelines. Our Water Solutions segment transports, treats, recycles and disposes of produced and flowback water generated from crude oil and natural gas production. We also dispose of solids such as tank bottoms, drilling fluids and drilling muds and perform other ancillary services such as truck and frac tank washouts. As part of processing water, we are able to aggregate recovered crude oil, also known as skim oil, that was contained in the water and sell the crude oil. We also sell brackish non potable water to our producer customers to be used in their crude oil exploration and production activities. Our activities in the Water Solutions segment are underpinned by long term, fixed fee contracts and acreage dedications, some of which contain minimum volume commitments, with leading oil and gas companies including large, investment grade producer customers. Our Liquids and Refined Products segment conducts marketing operations for natural gas liquids, refined petroleum products and biodiesel to a broad range of commercial, retail and industrial customers across the United States and Canada. These operations are conducted through our 28 company owned terminals, other third party storage and terminal facilities, common carrier pipelines and our extensive fleet of leased railcars. We also provide natural gas liquid and refined product terminaling and storage services at our salt dome storage facility joint venture in Utah and marine exports through our facility located in Chesapeake, Virginia. We employ a number of contractual and hedging strategies to minimize commodity exposure and maximize earnings stability of this segment. Business Repositioning Since late 2017, we have undertaken a number of important strategic actions in an effort to leverage the Partnership core areas of competitive strength and focus on generating stable, growing and predictable cash flows, while improving our 3 credit profile. These steps included the sale of our 50% interest in the Glass Mountain pipeline, the sale of our Retail Propane segment, the sale of certain non core assets in our Water Solutions segment and the sale of a substantial portion of our former Refined Products and Renewables segment, as well as the purchase of terminaling assets in our Liquids and Refined Products segment and 2 strategic water infrastructure assets in the Delaware Basin. These transactions are described in more detail below and in Other Dispositions below. The sale of a substantial portion of our former Refined Products and Renewables segment has allowed us to reduce working capital indebtedness and decrease earnings volatility, while the purchase of the 2 strategic water infrastructure assets assists in furthering our ongoing strategy of cash flow predictability by adding long term contracts under acreage dedications and minimum volume commitments. We believe these actions have substantially simplified our business mix and has allowed us to focus on what we believe are the core areas of our business and improved our overall financial position. These transactions are expected to better position us for sustained growth in the future. Sale of Retail Propane Segment On March 30, 2018, we sold a portion of our Retail Propane segment to DCC LPG ( DCC ) for net proceeds of $2124 million . On July 10, 2018, we completed the sale of virtually all of our remaining Retail Propane segment to Superior Plus Corp. ( Superior ) for total consideration of $889.8 million and, finally, on August 14, 2018, we sold our interest in Victory Propane, LLC ( Victory Propane ). These transactions represented a strategic shift in our operations and will have a significant effect on our operations and financial results going forward. Accordingly, the results of operations and cash flows related to our former Retail Propane segment (including equity in earnings of Victory Propane) have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented and prior periods have been retrospectively adjusted in the consolidated statements of operations and consolidated statements of cash flows. See Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for a further discussion of these transactions. Sale of Bakken Saltwater Disposal Business On November 30, 2018, we completed the sale of NGL Water Solutions Bakken, LLC to an affiliate of Tallgrass Energy, LP for $85.0 million in net cash proceeds. These operations include five saltwater disposal wells located in McKenzie and Dunn Counties, North Dakota. As this sale transaction did not represent a strategic shift that will have a major effect on our operations or financial results, operations related to this portion of our Water Solutions segment have not been classified as discontinued operations. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for a further discussion of this transaction. Sale of South Pecos Water Disposal Business On February 28, 2019, we completed the sale of our South Pecos water disposal business to a subsidiary of WaterBridge Resources LLC for $2322 million in net cash proceeds. These operations include (i) nine saltwater disposal facilities, (ii) all disposal agreements, commercial, surface and other contracts related to those facilities, (iii) pipelines connected to the facilities and (iv) several disposal permits. All of the assets sold in this transaction are located near the town of Pecos, Texas in southern Reeves and Ward counties. As this sale transaction did not represent a strategic shift that will have a major effect on our operations or financial results, operations related to this portion of our Water Solutions segment have not been classified as discontinued operations. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for a further discussion of this transaction. Sale of Certain Refined Products Businesses On September 30, 2019, we completed the sale of TransMontaigne Product Services, LLC ( TPSL ) and associated assets to Trajectory Acquisition Company, LLC ( Trajectory ) for total consideration of $2338 million , including equity consideration, inventory and net working capital. The divested assets include the following TPSL Terminaling Services Agreement with TransMontaigne Partners LP, including the exclusive rights to utilize 19 terminals; line space along Colonial and Plantation Pipelines; 2 wholly owned refined products terminals in Georgia and multiple third party throughput agreements; and customer contracts, inventory and other working capital associated with the assets. On January 3, 2020, we completed the sale of our refined products marketing business in the mid continent region of the United States ( Mid Con ) to a third party. On March 30, 2020, we completed the sale of our gas blending business in the southeastern and eastern regions of the United States ( Gas Blending ) to another third party. As these businesses made up a significant portion of our former Refined Products and Renewables segment, these transactions represent a strategic shift in our operations and will have a significant effect on our operations and financial results going forward. Accordingly, the results of operations and cash flows related to TPSL, Mid Con and Gas Blending have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented and prior 4 periods have been retrospectively adjusted in the consolidated statements of operations and consolidated statements of cash flows. In addition, certain assets and liabilities have been classified as held for sale in our March 31, 2019 consolidated balance sheet. See Note 1 and Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for a discussion of the accounting for these transactions. Purchase of Natural Gas Liquids Terminals In March 2019, we completed the acquisition of the natural gas liquids terminal business of DCP Midstream, LP for total consideration of approximately $1034 million. The acquisition consisted of five propane rail terminals located in the Eastern United States and a 50% ownership interest in an additional rail terminal located in Maine. We also acquired an import export terminal located in Chesapeake, Virginia, which provides strategic access to the water for international import and export activity, and has the capability to load and unload ships ranging in size from handy sized vessels up to very large gas carriers. All of the terminals complement our existing natural gas liquids portfolio and also create additional opportunities for new and existing customers to supply their business. Purchase of Mesquite Disposals Unlimited, LLC ( Mesquite ) On July 2, 2019, we acquired all of the assets of Mesquite, including 34 saltwater disposal wells and approximately 175 miles of pipelines. The purchase price was comprised of (i) $5925 million in cash, (ii) the issuance of $1028 million of our Class B Preferred Units (as defined herein) and (iii) additional cash payments of $200.0 million to be paid in 2 deferred installments contingent on the average daily volume of water processed utilizing the assets being acquired. The assets include a fully interconnected produced water pipeline transportation and disposal system in Eddy and Lea Counties, New Mexico, and Loving County, Texas. The vast majority of volumes on Mesquite system are contracted under long term acreage dedications and minimum volume commitments. The acquisition of the Mesquite assets provides multiple transportation, disposal and recycling options throughout Eddy and Lea Counties that allow us to deliver on our commitments. The acquisition of the Mesquite assets, together with our existing footprint in the Delaware Basin, provide us with significant scale and capabilities that will facilitate high quality execution for our customers. Purchase of Hillst1 Environmental Partners, LLC ( Hillst1 ) On October 31, 2019, we acquired all of the equity interests of Hillst1 for $6425 million , subject to certain adjustments. Hillst1 provides water pipeline and disposal infrastructure solutions to producers with a core operational focus in the state line area of southern Eddy and Lea Counties, New Mexico and northern Loving County, Texas in the Delaware Basin. Hillst1 has a fully interconnected produced water pipeline transportation and disposal system, which consists of 19 saltwater disposal wells representing approximately 580,000 barrels per day of permitted disposal capacity, and approximately 70 miles of a newly built ne2rk of water pipelines, with approximately 680,000 barrels per day of transportation capacity. Hillst1 also has an additional 22 permits to develop another 660,000 barrels per day of disposal capacity. The acquired assets also include minimum volume commitments and long term dedications covering over 110,000 contracted acres. This acquisition is highly complementary to our core Delaware Basin asset footprint. For more information regarding our results of operations and reportable segments, see I, Item 7 Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Other Acquisitions The following summarizes our other significant acquisitions over the past 3 fiscal years. On November 7, 2019, we acquired the exclusive rights to use certain land in Lea County, New Mexico for produced and treated water operations from 1 entity, certain membership interests in another entity and other assets. During the year ended March 31, 2020 , we acquired 1 saltwater disposal facility (including 3 saltwater disposal wells) in Eddy County, New Mexico. During the year ended March 31, 2020 , we acquired land and 2 saltwater disposal wells in Pecos County, Texas. 5 During the year ended March 31, 2019, we acquired six saltwater disposal facilities (including 22 saltwater disposal wells), 2 ranches and four brackish non potable water facilities (including 45 brackish non potable water wells). During the year ended March 31, 2018, we acquired the remaining 50% ownership interest in NGL Solids Solutions, LLC. For a further discussion of our acquisitions, see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Other Dispositions The following summarizes our other significant dispositions over the past 3 fiscal years. Sale of Interest in E Energy Adams, LLC On May 3, 2018, we sold our approximately 20% interest in E Energy Adams, LLC for net proceeds of $18.6 million . Sale of Interest in Glass Mountain Pipeline, LLC ( Glass Mountain ) On December 22, 2017, we sold our 50% interest in Glass Mountain for net proceeds of $2921 million . Sawtooth Caverns, LLC ( Sawtooth ) Joint Venture On March 30, 2018, we formed a joint venture with Magnum Liquids, LLC and they acquired an approximately 28.5% interest in Sawtooth from us, in exchange for consideration consisting of a cash payment of approximately $37.6 million (excluding working capital) and the contribution of certain refined products rights and adjacent leasehold . For a further discussion of our dispositions, see Note 17 and Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. 6 Primary Service Areas The following map shows the primary service areas of our businesses at March 31, 2020 7 Organizational Chart The following chart provides a summarized view of our legal entity structure at March 31, 2020 (1) Includes (i) NGL Crude Logistics, LLC, which includes the operations of our Crude Oil Logistics business and certain businesses within our Liquids and Refined Products segment, (ii) NGL Water Solutions, LLC, which includes the operations of our Water Solutions business and (iii) NGL Liquids, LLC, which includes the operations of certain of our businesses within our Liquids and Refined Products segment. 8 Our Business Strategies Our principal business objectives are to maximize the profitability and stability of our businesses, grow our businesses in an accretive and prudent manner, and maintain a strong balance sheet. We intend to accomplish these objectives by executing the following strategies Focus on building a diversified midstream master limited partnership providing multiple services to customers. We continue to enhance our ability to transport crude oil from the wellhead to refiners, produced water from the wellhead to treatment for disposal, recycle, or discharge, and natural gas liquids from processing plants and supply hubs to end users. Operate in a safe and environmentally responsible manner. We seek to operate our business in a safe and environmentally responsible manner by working with our employees, customers, vendors and local communities to minimize our environmental impact and comply with local, state and federal environmental laws and regulations. Focus on consistent annual cash flows from operations under multi year contracts that minimize commodity price risk and generate fee based revenues . We intend to focus on generating revenues under long term fee based contracts in addition to back to back contracts which minimize direct commodity price exposure. We seek to continue to increase cash flows that are supported by certain fee based, multi year contracts, some of which include acreage dedications from producers or minimum volume commitments. Achieve growth by investing in new assets, customers and ventures that increase volumes, enhance our operations, and generate attractive rates of return . We have invested and expect to continue to invest within our existing businesses to capitalize on accretive, organic growth opportunities. We have available capacity in many of the assets that we own and operate that can be utilized to increase cash flows with minimal incremental capital investment. We also continue to pursue strategic transactions and ventures that complement and enhance our existing footprint. Prudently manage our balance sheet to provide us with maximum financial flexibility for funding our operations, capital projects and strategic acquisitions. We will seek to maintain sufficient liquidity and credit metrics to manage existing and future capital requirements and to take advantage of market opportunities. We expect to continue to evaluate the capital markets and may opportunistically pursue financing transactions to optimize our capital structure. Our Competitive Strengths We believe that we are well positi1d to successfully execute our business strategies and achieve our principal business objectives because of the following competitive strengths Our diversified operations allow us to generate more predictable and stable cash flows on a year to year basis. Our ability to provide multiple services to customers in numerous geographic areas enhances our competitive position. Our 3 business units are diversified by geography, customer base and commodity sensitivities, which we believe provides us with more stable cash flows through the typical commodity cycles. Our ne2rk of crude oil transportation and storage assets, which allows us to serve customers over a wide geographic area and optimize sales. Our strategically deployed terminals, towboats, barges, trucks, and our owned and contracted pipeline capacity, provide access to a wide range of customers and markets. We use this expansive ne2rk of transportation assets to deliver crude oil to the optimal markets. These operations are supported by long term, fee based contracts with producers, refiners and marketers. Our water processing facilities, which are strategically located near areas of high crude oil and natural gas production . Our water processing facilities are located among the most prolific crude oil and natural gas producing areas in the United States, including the Delaware Basin, the Midland Basin, the DJ Basin and the Eagle Ford Basin. In addition, we believe that the technological capabilities of our Water Solutions business can be quickly implemented at new facilities and locations. These assets are also supported by long term, fee based contracts that include acreage dedications and minimum volume commitments. Our ne2rk of natural gas liquids transportation, terminal, and storage assets, which allows us to provide multiple services across the continental United States. Our strategically located terminals, large leased railcar fleet, shipper status on common carrier pipelines, and substantial leased and owned underground storage enable us to be a preferred purchaser and seller of natural gas liquids. We have a diverse base of long standing customers 9 and believe that our performance metrics allow us to reliably supply, store and transport products throughout North America. Our seas1d management team with extensive midstream industry experience and a track record of acquiring, integrating, operating and growing successful businesses. Our management team has significant experience managing companies in the energy industry, including master limited partnerships. In addition, through decades of experience, our management team has developed strong business relationships with key industry participants throughout the United States. We believe that our management knowledge of the industry, relationships within the industry, and experience provide us with the opportunities to optimize our existing assets. Our management team also has experience in identifying, evaluating and completing acquisitions and other ventures that provide us with additional opportunities to complement, grow and expand our existing operations. Our Businesses Crude Oil Logistics Overview. Our Crude Oil Logistics segment purchases crude oil from producers and marketers and transports it to refineries or for resale at pipeline injection stations, storage terminals, barge loading facilities, rail facilities, refineries, and other trade hubs, and provides storage, terminaling and transportation services through its owned assets. Our operations are concentrated in and around a number of the most prolific crude oil producing basins in the United States including the DJ Basin in Colorado, the Permian Basin in Texas and New Mexico, the Eagle Ford Basin in Texas and the United States Gulf Coast. Our activities in this segment are supported by a number of long term, fixed rate minimum volume commitments on our Grand Mesa Pipeline that provide a significant amount of stability to these operations. Our foundation asset in this segment is the Grand Mesa Pipeline ( Grand Mesa ), a 550 mile pipeline that transports crude oil from its origin in Weld County, Colorado to our terminal in Cushing, Oklahoma. Grand Mesa commenced operations on November 1, 2016 and has operated continuously since then. The main line portion of this pipeline is comprised of a 37.5% undivided interest in a crude oil pipeline jointly owned by Saddlehorn Pipeline Company, LLC ( Saddlehorn ) in which we have the right to use 150,000 barrels per day of capacity of the pipeline. During the year ended March 31, 2020, approximately 45.9 million barrels of crude were transported on the Grand Mesa Pipeline, which averaged approximately 131,000 financial barrels per day. Operating costs associated with Grand Mesa are allocated to us based on our proportionate ownership interest and throughput. We also own an origin terminal in Lucerne, Colorado where we aggregate crude volumes of different types and grades and store them until they are ready for transfer to our Grand Mesa Pipeline. The terminal has 950,000 barrels of operational tankage and a 12 bay truck loading facility. We also own and operate the Riverside terminal with 20,000 barrels of storage and a four bay truck loading facility, which connects to the Grand Mesa Pipeline. Through our undivided interest in the Grand Mesa Pipeline, we have sufficient capacity to service our customer contracts at the same origin and termination points with the ability to accept additional volume commitments. We retained ownership of our previously acquired easements for the potential future development of transportation projects involving petroleum commodities other than crude oil and condensate. With the consent and participation of Saddlehorn, we and Saddlehorn may consider future opportunities using these easements for projects involving the transportation of crude oil and condensate. We own and operate a large scale crude oil terminal located in Cushing, Oklahoma with 3,626,000 barrels of storage capacity, seven off loading lease automatic custody transfer units ( LACTs ), a full control room, on site laboratory, and 3 24 inch bi directional pipelines each capable of moving 360,000 barrels per day. The terminal features advantaged connectivity to other terminals and pipelines including important connections to our Grand Mesa Pipeline and TransCanada terminal with access to the United States Gulf Coast via Marketlink. The terminal is situated on 200 acres and is designed to be expanded based on customer demand. Cushing is 1 of the most liquid trading hubs in the world and is the delivery point for the West Texas Intermediate futures contract. We own and operate a crude oil marine terminal in Point Comfort, Texas with 350,000 barrels of storage capacity, six off loading LACTs and 3 docks (2 for ocean going barges and ships and 1 for brown water barges). We own and operate a crude oil pipeline and marine terminal in Houma, Louisiana with 288,000 barrels of storage capacity, 2 off loading LACTs, a brown water barge dock and 2 bi directional pipelines each capable of moving 120,000 barrels per day with connectivity to Shell Zydeco System. We also own a terminal in Kingfisher, Oklahoma with 6,000 barrels of storage. Operations. We purchase crude oil from producers and marketers and transport it to refineries or for resale. Our strategically deployed terminals, towboats, barges, trucks, and our owned and contracted pipeline capacity, provide access to a 10 wide range of customers and markets. We use this expansive ne2rk of transportation assets to deliver crude oil to the optimal markets. We currently transport crude oil using the following assets The Grand Mesa Pipeline, which is described above, and 20 other common carrier pipelines owned by third parties; 131 owned trucks and 214 owned trailers operating primarily in the Mid Continent, Permian Basin, Eagle Ford Basin, and Rocky Mountain regions; 397 owned railcars (all of which are leased to third parties) and 246 leased railcars (all of which are subleased to third parties); and 11 owned towboats and 23 owned barges operating primarily in the intercoastal waterways of the Gulf Coast and along the Mississippi and Arkansas River systems. We accepted delivery of a newly constructed barge in April 2020 and expect to accept delivery of a second newly constructed barge in July 2020. All of our 397 owned railcars and 246 leased railcars are compliant with the standards for railcars built subsequent to 2011 for the commodities they are transporting. (See , Item 1 Government Regulation ). We also own 27 strategically located pipeline injection stations, the locations of which are summarized below. State Number of Pipeline Injection Stations Texas 14 Oklahoma 6 New Mexico 5 Kansas 2 Total 27 Customers. Our customers include crude oil refiners, producers, and marketers. During the year ended March 31, 2020 , 77% of the revenues of our Crude Oil Logistics segment were generated from our ten largest customers of the segment . In addition to utilizing our assets to transport crude oil we own, we also provide truck transportation, barge transportation, storage, and terminal throughput services to our customers. Additionally, certain key customers of the Grand Mesa Pipeline contribute significantly to the cash flows and profitability of that asset. Any loss of those customers or their contracts could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Competition. Our Crude Oil Logistics business faces significant competition, as many entities are engaged in the crude oil logistics business, some of which are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. The primary factors on which we compete are price; availability of supply; reliability of service; logistics capabilities, including the availability of railcars, proprietary terminals, and owned pipelines, barges, railcars, trucks, and towboats; long term customer relationships; and the acquisition of businesses. Supply. We obtain crude oil from a large base of suppliers, which consists primarily of crude oil producers. We currently purchase crude oil from approximately 200 producers at approximately 2,300 leases. Pricing Policy. Most of our contracts to purchase or sell crude oil are at floating prices that are indexed to published rates in active markets such as Cushing, Oklahoma, St. James, Louisiana, and Magellan East Houston. We seek to manage price risk by entering into purchase and sale contracts of similar volumes based on similar indexes and by hedging exposure due to fluctuations in actual volumes and scheduled volumes. 11 Our profitability is impacted by forward crude oil prices. Crude oil markets can either be in contango (a condition in which forward crude oil prices are greater than spot prices) or can be in backwardation (a condition in which forward crude oil prices are lower than spot prices). Our Crude Oil Logistics business benefits when the market is in contango, as increasing prices result in inventory holding gains during the time between when we purchase inventory and when we sell it. In addition, we are able to better utilize our storage assets when contango markets justify storing barrels. When markets are in backwardation, falling prices typically have an unfavorable impact on our storage tank lease rates. Billing and Collection Procedures. Our Crude Oil Logistics customers consist primarily of crude oil refiners, producers, and marketers. We typically invoice these customers on a monthly basis. We perform credit analysis, require credit approvals, establish credit limits, and follow monitoring procedures on these customers. We believe the following procedures enhance our collection efforts with these customers we require certain customers to prepay or place deposits for our products and services; we require certain customers to post letters of credit or other forms of surety on a portion of our receivables; we review receivable aging analyses regularly to identify issues or trends that may develop; and we require our marketing personnel to manage their customers receivable position and suspend sales to customers that have not timely paid invoices. Trade Names. Our Crude Oil Logistics segment operates primarily under the NGL Crude Logistics, NGL Crude Transportation and NGL Marine trade names. Water Solutions Overview. Our Water Solutions segment transports, treats, recycles and disposes of produced and flowback water generated from crude oil and natural gas production. We also dispose of solids such as tank bottoms, drilling fluids and drilling muds and perform other ancillary services such as truck and frac tank washouts. As part of processing water, we are able to aggregate recovered crude oil, also known as skim oil, that was contained in the water and sell the crude oil. We also sell brackish non potable water to our producer customers to be used in their crude oil exploration and production activities. Our activities in the Water Solutions segment are underpinned by long term, fixed fee contracts and acreage dedications, some of which contain minimum volume commitments, with leading oil and gas companies including large, investment grade producer customers. We operate in a number of the most prolific crude oil and natural gas producing areas including the Delaware Basin in New Mexico and Texas, the Midland Basin in Texas, the DJ Basin in Colorado and the Eagle Ford Basin in Texas. With a system that handled approximately 485.1 million barrels of produced water across its areas of operation during the year ended March 31, 2020, we believe that we are the largest independent produced water transportation and disposal company in the United States. We currently have over 300,000 acres dedicated to our system under long term agreements in the Northern Delaware Basin. In addition, we have several minimum volume commitments and other commercial agreements covering the Delaware, Midland, Eagle Ford, DJ and Pinedale Anticline Basins. Our focus in building our Water Solutions business has been to secure long term, fixed fee contracts that contain minimum volume commitments, acreage dedications or similarly strong contractual relationships with large, well capitalized producer customers. Our core asset in the Water Solutions segment is our system located in the Northern Delaware Basin, where we own and operate the largest integrated ne2rk of large diameter produced water pipelines, recycling facilities and disposal wells. This system spans six counties in New Mexico and Texas that represent 1 of the most prolific crude oil producing regions in the United States with some of the most economic hydrocarbon resource and lowest break even economics for producers. This system has over 535 miles of newly built, in service large diameter produced water pipelines connected to 58 active saltwater disposal facilities and 117 active disposal wells. We have over 300,000 acres dedicated to the Northern Delaware system providing a multi decade drilling inventory and significant growth opportunity. These assets are substantially supported by long term, fixed fee contracts underpinned by major acreage dedications or minimum volume commitments. Our Water Solutions segment also disposes of solids employing specialized equipment at select facilities in the Eagle Ford Basin, the Delaware Basin, the Midland Basin and the DJ Basin. This capability enables us to accept and dispose of solids such as tank bottoms, drilling fluids and drilling muds generated by crude oil and natural gas exploration and production activities. Our facilities will accept only exploration and production exempt waste allowed under our permits. 12 We own or have a possessory interest in over 120,000 acres of real estate on 2 ranches located in Eddy and Lea Counties, New Mexico, which we acquired during the year ended March 31, 2019. We purchased the real estate to secure royalty free locations to grow our produced water business and develop pipeline infrastructure. Our 2 ranches include 16 commercial water permits and four strategically located brackish non potable water facilities (including 45 brackish non potable water wells). Additionally, on both ranches we are organically developing surface mineral mining operations, solid waste facilities, and are exploring other uses for our real estate holdings. Operations. We own 119 water treatment and disposal facilities, including 214 injection wells. The location and permitted processing capacities of these facilities are summarized below. Number of Permitted Processing Capacity (barrels per day) Location Facilities Own (1) Lease (2) Total Permian Basin Delaware Basin (3) Texas and New Mexico 63 4,376,300 55,000 4,431,300 Midland Basin (3) Texas 15 400,800 400,800 Eagle Ford (3)(4) Texas 24 644,000 312,000 956,000 DJ Basin Colorado 13 358,000 167,500 525,500 Granite Wash (3) Texas 2 60,000 60,000 Pinedale Anticline (5) Wyoming 1 72,765 72,765 Eaglebine Texas 1 20,000 20,000 Total All Facilities 119 5,859,100 607,265 6,466,365 (1) These facilities are located on lands we own. (2) These facilities are located on lands we lease. (3) Certain facilities can dispose of both produced water and solids such as tank bottoms, drilling fluids and drilling muds. (4) Includes 1 facility with a permitted processing capacity of 40,000 barrels per day in which we own a 75% interest. (5) This facility has a design capacity of 72,765 barrels per day to process water to a recycle standard. Our customers bring produced and flow back water generated by crude oil and natural gas exploration and production operations to our facilities for treatment through pipeline gathering systems and by truck. We expect that our pipeline delivered volumes will continue to increase as new projects come on line. Once we take delivery of the water, the level of processing is determined by the ultimate disposition of the water. Our facilities in Colorado, Texas and New Mexico dispose of produced water primarily into deep underground formations via injection wells. At our disposal facilities, we use proprietary well maintenance programs to enhance injection rates and extend the service lives of the wells. Our facility servicing the Pinedale Anticline in Wyoming has the assets and technology needed to treat the water more extensively than a typical disposal facility. At this facility, we have the option of disposing of the water in underground injection wells or recycling the water. With regard to recycling the water, we either process the water to the point where it can be returned to producers to be reused in future drilling operations (recycle quality water), or we treat the water to a greater extent, such that it exceeds the standards for drinking water, and can be returned to the ecosystem (discharge quality water). Recycling offers producers an alternative to the use of fresh water in hydraulic fracturing operations. This minimizes the impact on aquifers, particularly in arid regions of the United States. Since June 2012, we have recycled approximately 19.4 million barrels (815 million gallons) of recycle quality water, have returned approximately 9.6 million barrels (403 million gallons) of discharge quality water back to New Fork River, which is a tributary of the Colorado River, and have returned approximately 27 million barrels (113 million gallons) of water to the ecosystem through an agricultural irrigation system. Customers. The primary customers of our operations consist mainly of large publicly traded, oil and gas companies with diversified acreage positions across multiple leading oil and gas plays. The customers have contracts with us including minimum volume commitments, acreage dedications, water pipeline and trucked water disposal agreements. The customers of our Wyoming and Colorado facilities consist primarily of public and private exploration and production companies that conduct drilling operations near our facilities. The primary customer of our Wyoming facility has committed to deliver a specified minimum volume of water to our facility under a long term contract. The primary customers of our Colorado facilities have acreage dedications to deliver all produced water produced at wells within the acreage to our facilities. During the year ended 13 March 31, 2020 , 52% of the water treatment and disposal revenues of our Water Solutions segment were generated from our ten largest customers of the segment . Competition. The principal elements of competition are system reliability, project execution capability and reputation, system capacity and flexibility, rates for services and system location relative to the producer operations. Our competitors include independent produced water transportation and disposal companies and the water transportation and disposal operations owned by oil and gas production companies themselves. Location can be an important consideration for our customers, who seek to minimize the cost of transporting the produced water to disposal facilities. Many of our facilities are strategically located near areas of high crude oil and natural gas production which provides us with a distinct advantage over a competitor that must build a system that can compete with our assets. Pricing Policy. We charge customers a fee per barrel of produced water received. Our contractual agreements consist of (a) minimum volume commitments requiring the customer to deliver a specified minimum volume of produced water over a specified period of time; (b) acreage dedications requiring the customer to deliver all volumes from the dedicated acreage with us; and (c) produced water pipeline and trucked disposal agreements providing interruptible service in exchange for a fee per barrel of produced water received. We also generate revenue from the sale of crude oil we recover in processing the produced water. In addition, we may charge pipeline transportation fees, pipeline interconnection fees, solids disposal fees and fees for the sale of produced water for reuse by our customers. Billing and Collection Procedures. Our Water Solutions customers consist of large, integrated oil and gas companies and leading independent exploration and production companies. We typically invoice these customers on a monthly basis. We perform credit analysis, require credit approvals, establish credit limits, and follow monitoring procedures on these customers. We believe the following procedures enhance our collection efforts with these customers we require certain customers to prepay or place deposits for our services; we require certain customers to post letters of credit or other forms of surety on a portion of our receivables; we review receivable aging analyses regularly to identify issues or trends that may develop; and we require our marketing personnel to manage their customers receivable position and suspend service to customers that have not timely paid invoices. Trade Names. Our Water Solutions segment operates primarily under the NGL Water Solutions and Anticline Disposal trade names. Technology. We hold multiple patents for processing technologies. We believe that the technological capabilities of our Water Solutions business can be quickly implemented at new facilities and locations. Liquids and Refined Products Overview . Our Liquids and Refined Products segment conducts marketing operations for natural gas liquids, refined petroleum products and biodiesel to a broad range of commercial, retail and industrial customers across the United States and Canada. These operations are conducted through our 28 company owned terminals, other third party storage and terminal facilities, common carrier pipelines and our extensive fleet of leased railcars. We also provide natural gas liquid and refined product terminaling and storage services at our salt dome storage facility joint venture in Utah and marine exports through our facility located in Chesapeake, Virginia. We employ a number of contractual and hedging strategies to minimize commodity exposure and maximize earnings stability of this segment. During the year ended March 31, 2020 , we sold 4.2 billion gallons of natural gas liquids, refined products and renewables products, an average of 1139 million gallons (approximately 271,000 barrels) per day. Operations . We procure natural gas liquids from refiners, gas processing plants, producers and other resellers for delivery to leased or owned storage space, common carrier pipelines, railcar terminals, and direct to certain customers. Our customers take delivery by loading natural gas liquids into transport vehicles from common carrier pipeline terminals, private terminals, our terminals, directly from refineries and rail terminals, and by railcar. A portion of our wholesale propane gallons are presold to third party retailers and wholesalers at a fixed price under back to back contracts. Back to back contracts, in which we balance our contractual portfolio by buying physical propane supply or derivatives when we have a matching purchase commitment from our wholesale customers, protect our margins and mitigate commodity price risk. Presales also reduce the impact of warm weather because the customer is required to take 14 delivery of the propane regardless of the weather or any other factors. We generally require cash deposits from these customers. In addition, on a daily basis we have the ability to balance our inventory by buying or selling propane, butanes, and natural gasoline to refiners, resellers, and propane producers through pipeline inventory transfers at major storage hubs. In order to secure consistent supply during the heating season, we are often required to purchase volumes of propane during the entire fiscal year. In order to mitigate storage costs and price risk, we may sell those volumes at a lesser margin in lower demand months than we earn in our other wholesale operations. We purchase butane from refiners during the summer months, when refiners have a greater butane supply than they need, and sell butane to refiners during the winter blending season, when demand for butane is higher. We utilize a portion of our railcar fleet and a portion of our leased underground storage to store butane for this purpose. We also transport customer owned natural gas liquids on our leased railcars and charge the customers a transportation service fee as well as subleasing railcars to certain customers. We utilize a fleet of approximately 4,900 high pressure and general purpose leased railcars of which 275 railcars are subleased to third parties. Our owned and leased terminals and railcar fleet give us the opportunity to access markets throughout the United States, and to move product to locations where demand is highest. We provide transportation, storage, and throughput services to third parties at our facilities at Kingfisher, Oklahoma and Port Hudson, Louisiana, as well as Sawtooth, an underground storage facility near Delta, Utah, in which we own approximately a 715% interest, as described further below. We purchase refined petroleum and renewable products primarily in the Gulf Coast, West Coast and Midwest regions of the United States and schedule them for delivery at various locations throughout the country. We conduct just in time sales at a nationwide ne2rk of terminals owned by third parties via rack spot sales that do not involve continuing contractual obligations to purchase or deliver product. Rack spot sales are priced and delivered on a daily basis through truck loading racks. At the end of each day for each of the terminals that we market from, we establish the next day selling price for each product for each of our delivery locations. We announce or post to customers via website, e mail, and teleph1 communications the rack spot sale price of various products for the following morning. When customers decide to purchase product from us, we purchase the same volume of product from a supplier at a previously agreed upon price. For these just in time transactions, our purchase from the supplier occurs at the same time as our sale to our customer. Typical rack spot sale purchasers include commercial and industrial end users, independent retailers and small, independent marketers who resell product to retail gasoline stations or other end users. Our selling price of a particular product on a particular day is a function of our supply at that delivery location or terminal, our estimate of the costs to replenish the product at that delivery location, and our desire to reduce product volume at that particular location that day. A significant percentage of our business is priced on a back to back basis which minimizes our commodity price exposure. 15 The following table summarizes the location of our facilities (excluding Sawtooth) and respective throughput capacity and interconnects to those facilities. Facility Throughput Capacity (gallons per day) Terminal Interconnects Arkansas 2,422,800 Connected to Enterprise Texas Eastern Products Pipeline; Rail Facility Missouri 1,813,000 Connected to Phillips66 Blue Line Pipeline Minnesota 1,441,000 Connected to Enterprise Mid America Pipeline; Rail Facility Indiana 1,364,000 Connected to Enterprise Texas Eastern Products Pipeline; Rail Facility Louisiana 945,000 Truck Facility Illinois 864,000 Connected to Phillips66 Blue Line Pipeline Wisconsin 863,000 Connected to Enterprise Mid America Pipeline; Rail Facility Virginia 794,000 Rail Facility; Marine Facility Oklahoma 756,800 Connected to Phillips66 Chisholm Pipeline; Rail Facility Washington 717,000 Rail Facility Massachusetts 681,200 Rail Facility Vermont 387,000 Rail Facility Maine 386,400 Rail Facility New York 386,400 Rail Facility Pennsylvania 368,000 Rail Facility United States Total 14,189,600 Ontario, Canada 200,000 Truck Facility Canada Total 200,000 Total 14,389,600 We have operating agreements with third parties for certain of our terminals. The terminals in East St. Louis, Illinois and Jefferson City, Missouri are operated for us by a third party for a monthly fee under an operating and maintenance agreement that expires in November 2022 The terminal in St. Catherines, Ontario, Canada is operated by a third party under a year to year agreement. We own the land on which 14 of the 28 natural gas liquids terminals are located and we either have easements or lease the land on which the remaining terminals are located. We are the majority owner of Sawtooth, an underground storage facility near Delta, Utah. This facility currently has capacity to store approximately 6.0 million barrels of natural gas liquids and refined products. We lease storage to approximately 16 customers, with lease terms ranging from 1 to 3 years. The facility is located on property for which we have a long term lease. We own a natural gas liquids terminal that supports refined products blending in Port Hudson, Louisiana, and a natural gas liquids and condensate facility in Kingfisher, Oklahoma. The Port Hudson terminal is located near Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and is in proximity to other refined products infrastructure along the Colonial pipeline. This truck unloading and storage facility allows for the aggregation and supply of butane and naphtha for motor fuel blending and consists of storage tanks with total capacity of 720,000 gallons. The Kingfisher facility is a natural gas liquids and condensate facility located in Kingfisher, Oklahoma, which is located in the middle of the STACK production region. The facility connects to the Chisholm NGL pipeline and the Conway fractionation complex and consists of 450,000 gallons of storage capacity, a methanol extraction tower and a 5,000 barrel per day condensate splitter. The Chesapeake facility is a marine export import terminal situated upstream of Norfolk, Virginia on the Elizabeth River. The site includes a proprietary dock with the capacity to berth handy sized vessels (a dry bulk carrier of an oil tanker with a capacity between 15,000 and 35,000 dead weight tonnage) to very large gas carriers (a carrier capable of loading anywhere between 100,000 cubic meters to 200,000 cubic meter of gas), truck loading and off road racks along with 22 railcar spots, with service provided by Norfolk Southern Railroad. The facility has an aggregate storage capacity of 20,378,000 gallons. 16 We own 23 transloading units, which enable customers to transfer product from railcars to trucks. These transloading units can be moved to locations along a railroad where it is most convenient for customers to transfer their product. We lease storage space to accommodate the supply requirements and contractual needs of our retail and wholesale customers. The following table summarizes our significant leased storage space at natural gas liquids and refined products storage facilities and interconnects to those facilities Leased Storage Space (gallons) Storage Facility Beginning April 1, 2020 At March 31, 2020 Storage Interconnects Kansas 60,900,000 67,200,000 Connected to Enterprise Mid America Pipeline, NuStar Pipelines and 1OK North System Pipeline; Rail Facility; Truck Facility Mississippi 7,980,000 6,300,000 Connected to Enterprise Dixie Pipeline; Rail Facility Missouri 7,560,000 7,560,000 Truck Facility Arizona 7,056,000 7,056,000 Connected to Kinder Morgan Pipeline; Rail Facility; Truck Facility Texas 3,990,000 3,990,000 Connected to Enterprise Texas Eastern Products Pipeline; Truck Facility Michigan 1,050,000 1,050,000 Rail Facility; Truck Facility Illinois 42,000 42,000 Connected to Buckeye Wood River Pipeline United States Total 88,578,000 93,198,000 Ontario, Canada 15,750,000 15,750,000 Rail Facility Alberta, Canada 3,440,892 3,440,800 Connected to Cochin Pipeline; Rail Facility Canada Total 19,190,892 19,190,800 Total 107,768,892 112,388,800 Customers . Our Liquids and Refined Products business serves approximately 1,400 customers in 49 states and Canada. Our Liquids and Refined Products business serves national, regional and independent retail, industrial, wholesale, petrochemical, refiner and natural gas liquids production customers. We deliver natural gas liquids, refined products and biodiesel supply to our customers at terminals located on common carrier pipelines, rail terminals, refineries, and major United States storage hubs. During the year ended March 31, 2020 , 22% of the revenues of our Liquids and Refined Products segment were generated from our ten largest customers of the segment . Seasonality . Our wholesale liquids business is largely seasonal as the primary users of propane as heating fuel generally purchase propane during the typical fall and winter heating season. However, we are able to partially mitigate the effects of seasonality by preselling a portion of our wholesale volumes to retailers and wholesalers and requiring the customer to take delivery of the product regardless of the weather. The demand for gasoline typically peaks during the summer driving season, which extends from April to September, and declines during the fall and winter months. However, the demand for diesel typically peaks during the fall and winter months due to colder temperatures in the Northeast, and peaks in the Midwest during spring planting and fall harvest. Competition. Our Liquids and Refined Products business faces significant competition from other natural gas liquids wholesalers, trading companies and companies involved in the natural gas liquids midstream industry (such as terminal and refinery operations), some of which have greater financial resources than we do. The primary factors on which we compete are price; availability of supply; reliability of service; 17 available space on common carrier pipelines; storage availability; logistics capabilities, including the availability of railcars, and proprietary terminals; long term customer relationships; and the acquisition of businesses. Market Price Risk . Our philosophy is to maintain minimum commodity price exposure through a combination of purchase contracts, sales contracts and financial derivatives. A significant percentage of our refined products and biodiesel businesses is priced on a back to back basis which minimizes our commodity price exposure. For discretionary inventory, and for those instances where physical transactions cannot be appropriately matched, we utilize financial derivatives to mitigate commodity price exposure. Specific exposure limits are mandated in our credit agreement and in our market risk policy. The value of refined products in any local delivery market is the sum of the commodity price as reflected on the NYMEX and the basis differential for that local delivery market. The basis differential for any local delivery market is the spread between the cash price in the physical market and the quoted price in the futures markets for the prompt month. We typically utilize NYMEX futures contracts to mitigate commodity price exposure. We generally do not manage the financial impact on us from changes in basis differentials affected by local market supply and demand disruptions. Pricing Policy. In our Liquids and Refined Products segment, we offer our customers the following categories of contracts customer pre buys, which typically require deposits based on market pricing conditions; market based, which can either be a posted price or an index to spot price at time of delivery; and load package, a firm price agreement for customers seeking to purchase specific volumes delivered during a specific time period. We use back to back contracts for many of our liquids business sales to limit exposure to commodity price risk and protect our margins. We are able to match our supply and sales commitments by offering our customers purchase contracts with flexible price, location, storage, and ratable delivery. However, certain common carrier pipelines require us to keep minimum in line inventory balances year round to conduct our daily business, and these volumes are not matched with a sales commitment. We generally require deposits from our customers for fixed price future delivery if the delivery date is more than 30 days after the time of contractual agreement. Billing and Collection Procedures. Our propane and butane customers consist of commercial accounts varying in size from local independent distributors to large regional and national retailers. These sales tend to be large volume transactions that can range from 10,000 gallons up to 1,000,000 gallons, and deliveries can occur over time periods extending from days to as long as a year. Our refined products customers consist primarily of commercial and industrial end users, independent retailers, distributors, marketers, government entities, and other wholesalers of refined petroleum products. We perform credit analysis, require credit approvals, establish credit limits, and follow monitoring procedures on these customers. We believe the following procedures enhance our collection efforts with these customers we require certain customers to prepay or place deposits for their purchases; we require certain customers to post letters of credit or other forms of surety on a portion of our receivables; we monitor individual customer receivables relative to previously approved credit limits, and our rack delivery system gives us the option to discontinue providing product to customers when they exceed their credit limits; we require certain customers to take delivery of their contracted volume ratably to help control the account balance rather than allowing them to take delivery of propane at their discretion; we review receivable aging analysis regularly to identify issues or trends that may develop; and we require our marketing personnel to manage their customers receivable position and suspend sales to customers that have not timely paid invoices. 18 Legal and Regulatory Considerations. Demand for ethanol and biodiesel is driven in large part by government mandates and incentives. Refiners and producers are required to blend a certain percentage of renewables into their refined products, although the percentage can vary from year to year based on the United States Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) mandates. In addition, the federal government has in recent years granted certain tax credits for the use of biodiesel, although on several occasions these tax credits have expired. In December 2019, the federal government passed a law to reinstate the tax credit retroactively to January 1, 2018, with the credit expiring on December 31, 2022 Changes in future mandates and incentives, or decisions by the federal government related to future reinstatement of the biodiesel tax credit, could result in changes in demand for ethanol and biodiesel. Trade Names. Our Liquids and Refined Products segment operates primarily under the NGL Supply Wholesale, NGL Supply Terminal Company, Sawtooth Caverns, Centennial Energy, NGL Crude Logistics and Centennial Gas Liquids trade names. Employees At March 31, 2020 , we had approximately 1,400 full time employees. We do not have any employees that are members of a labor union. Government Regulation Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industries Regulation of Oil and Natural Gas Exploration, Production and Sales. Sales of crude oil and natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are transacted at market prices. In 1989, the United States Congress enacted the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act, which removed all remaining price and non price controls affecting wellhead sales of natural gas. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ( FERC ), which has authority under the Natural Gas Act to regulate the prices and other terms and conditions of the sale of natural gas for resale in interstate commerce, has issued blanket authorizations for all natural gas resellers subject to its regulation, except interstate pipelines, to resell natural gas at market prices. Either Congress or the FERC (with respect to the resale of natural gas in interstate commerce), however, could re impose price controls in the future. Exploration and production operations and water disposal facilities are subject to various types of federal, state and local regulation, including, but not limited to, permitting, well location, methods of drilling, well operations, and conservation of resources. While these regulations do not directly apply to our business, they may affect the businesses of certain of our customers and suppliers and thereby indirectly affect our business. Regulation of the Transportation and Storage of Natural Gas and Oil and Related Facilities. The FERC regulates oil pipelines under the Interstate Commerce Act and natural gas pipeline and storage companies under the Natural Gas Act, and Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (the NGPA ), as amended by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Grand Mesa Pipeline became operational on November 1, 2016 and has several points of origin in Colorado, runs from those origin points through Kansas and terminates in Cushing, Oklahoma. The transportation services on the Grand Mesa Pipeline are subject to FERC regulation. In February 2018, the FERC issued a revised policy to disallow income tax allowance cost recovery in rates charged by pipeline companies organized as master limited partnerships. The FERC revised policy impacts cost of service rates on oil pipelines. Currently, the volumes of crude oil that are transported on the Grand Mesa Pipeline are subject to contractual agreements. Therefore, the FERC revised policy is not expected to impact the Grand Mesa Pipeline at the present time. Additionally, contracts we enter into for the interstate transportation or storage of crude oil or natural gas may be subject to FERC regulation including reporting or other requirements. In addition, the intrastate transportation and storage of crude oil and natural gas is subject to regulation by the state in which such facilities are located, and such regulation can affect the availability and price of our supply, and have both a direct and indirect effect on our business. Anti Market Manipulation. We are subject to the anti market manipulation provisions in the Natural Gas Act and the NGPA, which authorizes the FERC to impose fines of up to $1 million per day per violation of the Natural Gas Act, the NGPA, or their implementing regulations. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ) holds statutory authority under the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 to prevent market manipulation in petroleum markets, including the authority to request that a court impose fines of up to $1 million per violation. These agencies have promulgated broad rules and regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation in oil and gas markets. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission ( CFTC ) is directed under the Commodity Exchange Act to prevent price manipulations in the commodity and futures markets, including the energy futures markets. Pursuant to statutory authority, the CFTC has adopted anti market manipulation regulations that prohibit fraud 19 and price manipulation in the commodity and futures markets. The CFTC also has statutory authority to seek civil penalties of up to the greater of $1 million per day per violation or triple the m1tary gain to the violator for violations of the anti market manipulation sections of the Commodity Exchange Act. We are also subject to various reporting requirements that are designed to facilitate transparency and prevent market manipulation. Maritime Transportation. The J1s Act is a federal law that restricts maritime transportation between locations in the United States to vessels built and registered in the United States and owned and manned by United States citizens. Because our fleet transports between locations in the United States, we are subject to the provisions of the law. As a result, we are responsible for monitoring the ownership of our subsidiaries that engage in maritime transportation and for taking any remedial action necessary to ensure compliance with the J1s Act. The J1s Act also requires that all United States flagged vessels be manned by United States citizens. Foreign flagged seamen generally receive lower wages and benefits than those received by United States citizen seamen. This requirement significantly increases operating costs of United States flagged vessel operations compared to foreign flagged vessel operations. Certain foreign governments subsidize their nations shipyards. This results in lower shipyard costs both for new vessels and repairs than those paid by United States flagged vessel owners. The United States Coast Guard and American Bureau of Shipping maintain the most stringent regimen of vessel inspection in the world, which tends to result in higher regulatory compliance costs for United States flagged operators than for owners of vessels registered under foreign flags of convenience. Environmental Regulation General. Our operations are subject to a myriad of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Existing regulatory structure shapes our decision making and business activities in many ways, such as shaping decisions regarding what types of pollution control equipment to deploy and how a facility should be designed; informed construction activities, such as where to locate and where not to locate a facility, e.g., locating construction activities away from sensitive environmental, cultural or historic areas, including wetlands, coastal regions or areas inhabited by endangered or threatened species, and limiting or prohibiting construction activities during certain sensitive periods, such as when threatened or endangered species are breeding nesting; informed decision making regarding the timing of activities, for example, we will delay construction or system modification or upgrades during the issuance or renewal periods of certain permits; informed decision making pertaining to our approach to investigating, mitigating and remediating unplanned releases from our facilities and operations or attributable to former facilities or operations, as necessary and appropriate; and shaping our decision making about whether a facility or operation should be temporarily halted to address potential non compliance with relevant permit requirements. Consideration of and compliance with relevant environmental regulatory requirements has lead our business activities to be more sustainable while simultaneously mitigating exposure to long and short term environmental risk. Conversely, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of m1tary penalties. Certain environmental statutes impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where substances such as crude oil or wastes have been disposed or otherwise unlawfully released. The trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may adversely affect the environment. Thus, there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. The following is a discussion of the material environmental laws and regulations that relate to our businesses. Hazardous Substances and Waste. We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations governing the storage, distribution and transportation of natural gas liquids and the operation of bulk storage liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) terminals, as well as laws and regulations governing environmental protection, including those addressing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. Generally, these laws (i) regulate air and water quality and impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants and establish standards for the handling of solid and hazardous wastes; (ii) subject our operations to certain permitting and registration requirements; (iii) may result in the suspension or revocation of necessary permits, licenses and authorizations; (iv) impose substantial liabilities on us for pollution resulting from our operations; (v) require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former or ongoing 20 operations; and (vi) may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with such laws. These laws include, among others, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ( CERCLA ), the federal Clean Air Act, the Homeland Security Act of 2002, the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and comparable state statutes. CERCLA, also known as the Superfund law, and similar state laws, impose liability on certain classes of potentially responsible persons that are considered to have contributed to the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred and any1 who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. While natural gas liquids are not a hazardous substance within the meaning of CERCLA, other chemicals used in or generated by our operations may be classified as a hazardous substance. Persons who are or were responsible for releases of hazardous substances under CERCLA may be subject to strict and joint and several liability for the costs of investigating and cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies, and it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. RCRA, and comparable state statutes and their implementing regulations, regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the EPA, most states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Federal and state regulatory agencies can seek to impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for alleged non compliance with RCRA and analogous state requirements. Certain wastes associated with the production of oil and natural gas, as well as certain types of petroleum contaminated media and debris, are excluded from regulation as hazardous waste under Subtitle C of RCRA. These wastes, instead, are regulated under RCRA less stringent solid waste provisions, state laws or other federal laws. It is possible, however, that certain wastes now classified as non hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future and therefore be subject to more rigorous and costly disposal requirements. Legislation has been proposed from time to time in Congress to re categorize certain oil and natural gas wastes as hazardous wastes. Any such change could result in an increase in our costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position. We currently own or lease properties where crude oil is being or has been handled for many years. Although previous operators have utilized operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, crude oil or other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by us or on or under the other locations where the crude oil and wastes have been transported for treatment or disposal. These properties and the wastes disposed thereon may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under these laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes (including wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators), to clean up contaminated property (including contaminated groundwater) or to implement remedial measures to prevent or mitigate future contamination. We are not currently aware of any facts, events or conditions relating to such requirements that could materially impact our consolidated results of operations or financial position. Oil Pollution Prevention. Our operations involve the shipment of crude oil by barge through navigable waters of the United States. The Oil Pollution Prevention Act imposes liability for releases of crude oil from vessels or facilities into navigable waters. If a release of crude oil to navigable waters occurred during shipment or from a terminal, we could be subject to liability under the Oil Pollution Prevention Act. We are not currently aware of any facts, events, or conditions related to oil spills that could materially impact our consolidated results of operations or financial position. In 1973, the EPA adopted oil pollution prevention regulations under the Clean Water Act. These oil pollution prevention regulations, as amended several times since their original adoption, require the preparation of a Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure ( SPCC ) plan for facilities engaged in drilling, producing, gathering, storing, processing, refining, transferring, distributing, using, or consuming crude oil and oil products, and which due to their location, could reasonably be expected to discharge oil in harmful quantities into or upon the navigable waters of the United States. The owner or operator of an SPCC regulated facility is required to prepare a written, site specific spill prevention plan, which details how a facility operations comply with the requirements. To be in compliance, the facility SPCC plan must satisfy all of the applicable requirements for drainage, bulk storage tanks, tank car and truck loading and unloading, transfer operations (intrafacility piping), inspections and records, security, and training. Most importantly, the facility must fully implement the SPCC plan and train personnel in its execution. Where applicable, we maintain and implement such plans for our facilities. Air Emissions. Our operations are subject to the federal Clean Air Act and comparable state and local laws and regulations, which regulate emissions of air pollutants from various industrial sources and mandate certain monitoring and reporting requirements. This regulatory overlay may require that we obtain permits prior to the construction, modification or 21 operation of certain projects or facilities expected to produce or increase air emissions; that we obtain and strictly comply with air permits containing emissions and operational limitations and utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions. Violation of these requirements could subject us to m1tary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations and, potentially, criminal enforcement actions. Furthermore, we may make certain future capital expenditures for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions. Water Discharges. The Clean Water Act and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into state waters as well as waters of the United States and impose requirements affecting our ability to conduct construction activities in waters and wetlands. Certain state regulations and the general permits issued under the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program prohibit the discharge of pollutants and chemicals. SPCC requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of regulated waters in the event of a crude oil or other constituent tank spill, rupture or leak. In addition, the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws require individual permits or coverage under general permits for discharges of storm water runoff from certain types of facilities. We maintain a number of discharge permits, some of which may require us to monitor and sample storm water runoff from such facilities. Some states also maintain groundwater protection programs that require permits for discharges or operations that may impact groundwater conditions. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws and regulations. Underground Injection Control . The underground injection of crude oil and natural gas wastes is regulated by the Underground Injection Control Program, as authorized by the Safe Drinking Water Act, as well as by state programs focused on the conservation of hydrocarbon resources. The primary objective of injection well operating requirements is to ensure the mechanical integrity of the injection apparatus and to prevent migration of fluid from the injection z1 into underground sources of drinking water, as well as to prevent communication between injected fluids and z1s capable of producing hydrocarbons. The Safe Drinking Water Act establishes requirements for permitting, testing, monitoring, record keeping, and reporting of injection well activities, as well as a prohibition against the migration of fluid containing any contaminant into underground sources of drinking water. Any leakage from the subsurface portions of the injection wells could cause degradation of fresh groundwater resources, potentially resulting in suspension of our underground injection control ( UIC ) permits, issuance of fines and penalties from governmental agencies, incurrence of expenditures for remediation of the affected resource and imposition of liability by third parties for property damages and personal injuries. Under the auspices of the federal UIC program as implemented by states with UIC primacy, regulators, particularly at the state level, are becoming increasingly sensitive to possible correlations between underground injection and seismic activity. Consequently, state regulators implementing both the federal UIC program and state corollaries are heavily scrutinizing the location of injection facilities relative to faulting and are limiting both the density or injection facilities as well as the rate of injection. Hydraulic Fracturing. We do not conduct any hydraulic fracturing activities. However, a portion of our customers crude oil and natural gas production is developed from unconventional sources that require hydraulic fracturing as part of the completion process, and our Water Solutions business treats and disposes of produced water generated from crude oil and natural gas production, including production employing hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to stimulate oil and gas production. Legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the definition of underground injection and require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, as well as legislative proposals to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids used in the fracturing process, have been proposed in recent sessions of Congress. Congress will likely continue to consider legislation to amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to subject hydraulic fracturing operations to regulation under the Act UIC Program and or require disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Federal agencies, including the EPA and the United States Department of the Interior, have asserted their regulatory authority to, for example, study the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on the environment, and initiate rulemakings to compel disclosure of the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing operations, and establish pretreatment standards for produced water from hydraulic fracturing operations. In addition, some states have also proposed or adopted legislative or regulatory restrictions on hydraulic fracturing, which include additional permit requirements, public disclosure of fracturing fluid contents, operational restrictions, and or temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing. We expect that scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities will continue in the future. Greenhouse Gas Regulation There is a growing concern, both nationally and internationally, about climate change and the contribution of greenhouse gas emissions, most notably methane and carbon dioxide, to global warming. This growing concern has resulted in 22 a steady stream of legislation considered by Congress to address climate change through a variety of mechanisms, including carbon taxes and carbon cap and trade programs. For example, on January 24, 2019, Representative Theodore E. Deutch (D FL) introduced H.R. 763, the Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act of 2019, which would impose a fee on the carbon content of fuels, including crude oil and natural gas, on the producers or importers of such fuels. On April 10, 2019, Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D RI) introduced S. 1128, the American Opportunity Carbon Fee Act of 2019, which would impose fees on emissions from natural gas, petroleum products, and coal. The ultimate outcome of any possible future federal legislative initiatives is uncertain. In addition, several states have already adopted legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allowed the EPA to adopt and implement regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. On May 12, 2016, the EPA finalized 3 rules that regulate greenhouse gas emissions from certain sources in the oil and natural gas industry, including New Source Performance Standards for the Oil and Natural Gas Sector, which became effective on August 2, 2016. On April 18, 2017, the EPA announced its intention to reconsider certain aspects of the rule in response to several administrative reconsideration petitions. On October 15, 2018, the EPA proposed to amend the New Source Performance Standards for the Oil and Natural Gas Sector to, among other things, address fugitive emissions, pneumatic pump standards, and closed vent system certification requirements. The schedule for when this rulemaking could be finalized is not presently known. The EPA greenhouse gas regulations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations and also could adversely affect demand for the products that we transport, store, process, or otherwise handle in connection with our services. Some scientists have suggested climate change could increase the severity of extreme weather, such as increased hurricanes and floods, which could damage our facilities. Another possible consequence of climate change is increased volatility in seasonal temperatures. The market for our natural gas liquids is generally improved by periods of colder weather and impaired by periods of warmer weather, so any changes in climate could affect the market for our products and services. If there is an overall trend of warmer temperatures, it would be expected to have an adverse effect on our business. Because propane is considered a clean alternative fuel under the federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, new climate change regulations may provide us with a competitive advantage over other sources of energy, such as fuel oil and coal. The trend of more expansive and stringent environmental legislation and regulations, including greenhouse gas regulation, could continue, resulting in increased costs of conducting business and consequently affecting our profitability. To the extent laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restricts certain aspects of our business or imposes more stringent and costly operating, waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. Safety and Transportation All states in which we operate have adopted fire safety codes that regulate the storage and distribution of propane and distillates. In some states, state agencies administer these laws, while in other states, municipalities administer these laws. We conduct training programs to help ensure that our operations comply with applicable governmental regulations. With respect to general operations, each state in which we operate adopts National Fire Protection Association, Pamphlet Nos. 54 and 58, or comparable regulations, which establish rules and procedures governing the safe handling of propane, and Pamphlet Nos. 30, 30A, 31, 385, and 395 which establish rules and procedures governing the safe handling of distillates, such as fuel oil. We believe that the policies and procedures currently in effect at all of our facilities for the handling, storage and distribution of propane and distillates and related service and installation operations are consistent with industry standards and are in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental, health and safety laws. With respect to the transportation of propane, distillates, crude oil, and water, we are subject to regulations promulgated under federal legislation, including the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act and the Homeland Security Act of 2002 Regulations under these statutes cover the security and transportation of hazardous materials and are administered by the United States Department of Transportation ( DOT ). Specifically, crude oil pipelines are subject to regulation by the DOT, through the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration ( PHMSA ), under the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 ( HLPSA ), which requires PHMSA to develop, prescribe, and enforce minimum federal safety standards for the storage and transportation of hazardous liquids by and comparable state statutes with respect to design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of pipeline facilities. HLPSA covers petroleum and petroleum products 23 and requires any entity that owns or operates pipeline facilities to comply with such regulations, to permit access to and copying of records and to file certain reports and provide information as required by the United States Secretary of Transportation. These regulations include potential fines and penalties for violations. The Pipeline Safety Act of 1992 added the environment to the list of statutory factors that must be considered in establishing safety standards for hazardous liquid pipelines, established safety standards for certain regulated gathering lines, and mandated that regulations be issued to establish criteria for operators to use in identifying and inspecting pipelines located in high consequence areas ( HCAs ), defined as those areas that are unusually sensitive to environmental damage, that cross a navigable waterway, or that have a high population density. In the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement, and Safety Act of 2006, Congress required mandatory inspections for certain United States crude oil and natural gas transmission pipelines in HCAs and mandated that regulations be issued for low stress hazardous liquid pipelines and pipeline control room management. In January 2012, the federal government passed the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 (the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act ). This act provides for additional regulatory oversight of the nation pipelines, increases the penalties for violations of pipeline safety rules, and complements the DOT other initiatives. The 2011 Pipeline Safety Act increases the maximum fine for the most serious pipeline safety violations involving deaths, injuries or major environmental harm from $1 million to $2 million. In addition, this law established additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines. The law also provides for (i) additional pipeline damage prevention measures; (ii) allowing the Secretary of Transportation to require automatic and remote controlled shut off valves on new pipelines; (iii) requiring the Secretary of Transportation to evaluate the effectiveness of expanding pipeline integrity management and leak detection requirements; (iv) improving the way the DOT and pipeline operators provide information to the public and emergency responders; and (v) reforming the process by which pipeline operators notify federal, state and local officials of pipeline accidents. On June 22, 2016, the Protecting Our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2016 was enacted, further strengthening PHMSA safety authority and extending PHMSA statutory mandate under prior legislation through 2019. Congress did not pass a reauthorization bill in 2019 and PHMSA is operating under a continuing resolution until a new bill is passed. Railcar Regulation We transport a significant portion of our natural gas liquids, crude oil, ethanol and biodiesel via rail transportation, and we own and or lease a fleet of crude oil, high pressure and general purpose railcars for this purpose. Our railcar operations are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Railroad Administration of the DOT, as well as other federal and state regulatory agencies. The adoption of additional federal, state or local laws or regulations, including any voluntary measures by the rail industry regarding railcar design or transport activities, or efforts by local communities to restrict or limit rail traffic, could similarly affect our business by increasing compliance costs and decreasing demand for our services, which could adversely affect our financial position and cash flows. Occupational Health Regulations The workplaces associated with our manufacturing, processing, terminal, disposal, storage and distribution facilities are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act ( OSHA ) and comparable state statutes. We believe we have conducted our operations in substantial compliance with OSHA requirements, including general industry standards, record keeping requirements and monitoring of occupational exposure to regulated substances. Our marine vessel operations are also subject to safety and operational standards established and monitored by the United States Coast Guard. In general, we expect to increase our expenditures relating to compliance with likely higher industry and regulatory safety standards such as those described above. However, these expenditures cannot be accurately estimated at this time, but we do not expect compliance with these standards to have a material adverse effect on our business. Available Information on our Website Our website address is http www.nglenergypartners.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, the periodic reports that we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), as well as all amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information contained on, or connected to, our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site (http www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information related to issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 24 Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business The spread of the novel strain of coronavirus ( COVID 19 ), recent energy industry developments and the resulting impact on business and economic conditions may affect adversely our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The spread of COVID 19 has led to global and regional economic disruption, volatility in the financial markets and a weakened commodity price environment. It is possible that the continued spread of COVID 19 and efforts to contain the virus, such as quarantines, closures and reduced operations of businesses will have a continued adverse impact on global and regional economic conditions, which could further impact (i) the supply and demand for crude oil, refined petroleum and natural gas liquids, (ii) our ability to efficiently and effectively operate our business as our employees are subject to stay at home and social distancing restrictions, (iii) our suppliers of materials, equipment and services or (iv) our access to capital markets. The spread of COVID 19 may also cause other unpredictable or unforeseen events that may affect adversely our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Volatility in commodity prices may have an impact on many of our counterparties, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us. For example, in March 2020, unsuccessful negotiations between the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and Russia regarding crude oil production cuts resulted in a price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia. As a result, the global supply of crude oil significantly exceeded demand and led to a collapse in crude oil prices. However, further negotiations in April 2020 resulted in an agreement to reduce production volumes. Failure to abide by these agreed upon crude oil production cuts may further destabilize the global oil market, which is simultaneously experiencing a limitation on crude oil storage capacity and a dramatic decrease in demand due to COVID 19, and crude oil prices may continue to decline. If adverse global or regional economic and market conditions remain uncertain or persist, spread or deteriorate further, we may experience a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, cash flows and or liquidity. We may not have sufficient cash to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to our unitholders following the establishment of cash reserves by our general partner and the payment of costs and expenses, including reimbursement of expenses to our general partner. We may not have sufficient cash to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. These distributions may only be made from cash available for distribution after the preferred quarterly distribution to which our preferred units are entitled. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends on the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things the cost of crude oil, natural gas liquids, gasoline, diesel, ethanol, and biodiesel that we buy for resale and whether we are able to pass along cost increases to our customers; the volume of produced water delivered to our processing facilities; disruptions in the availability of crude oil and or natural gas liquids supply; our ability to renew leases for storage and railcars; the effectiveness of our commodity price hedging strategy; weather conditions across the United States; the level of competition from other energy providers; and prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution also depends on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the level of capital expenditures we make; the cost of acquisitions, if any; restrictions contained in the credit agreement (the Credit Agreement ), the term credit agreement (the Term Credit Agreement ) the indentures governing our outstanding 7.50% senior notes due 2023, 6.125% senior notes due 2025 and 7.50% senior notes due 2026 (collectively, the Indentures ) and other debt service requirements; 25 restrictions contained in the agreements relating to our 9.00% Class B Fixed to Floating Rate Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Units ( Class B Preferred Units ), 9.625% Class C Fixed to Floating Rate Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Units ( Class C Preferred Units ) and 9.00% Class D Preferred Units ( Class D Preferred Units ) (collectively the Preferred Units ); fluctuations in working capital needs; our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; the amount, if any, of cash reserves established by our general partner; and other business risks discussed in this Annual Report that may affect our cash levels. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we realize net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non cash Item. As a result, we might make cash distributions during periods when we record net losses for financial accounting purposes and we might not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income for financial accounting purposes. Our future financial performance and growth may be limited by our ability to successfully complete accretive acquisitions on economically acceptable terms. Our ability to complete accretive acquisitions on economically acceptable terms may be limited by various factors, including, but not limited to increased competition for attractive acquisitions; covenants in the Credit Agreement, Term Credit Agreement and Indentures that limit the amount and types of indebtedness that we may incur to finance acquisitions and which may adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders; lack of available cash or external capital or limitations on our ability to issue equity to pay for acquisitions; and possible unwillingness of prospective sellers to accept our common units as consideration and the potential dilutive effect to our existing unitholders caused by an issuance of common units in an acquisition. There can be no assurance that we will identify attractive acquisition candidates in the future, that we will be able to acquire such businesses on economically acceptable terms, that any acquisitions will not be dilutive to earnings and distributions or that any additional debt that we incur to finance an acquisition will not adversely affect our ability to make distributions to unitholders. Furthermore, if we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources. We may be subject to substantial risks in connection with the integration and operation of acquired businesses, in particular those businesses with operations that are distinct and separate from our existing operations. Any acquisitions we make in pursuit of our growth strategy are subject to potential risks, including, but not limited to the inability to successfully integrate the operations of recently acquired businesses; the assumption of known or unknown liabilities, including environmental liabilities; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity, debt or synergies; mistaken assumptions about sales volume, margin or operational expenses; unforeseen difficulties operating in new geographic areas or in new business segments; the diversion of management and employees attention from other business concerns; customer or key employee loss from the acquired businesses; and 26 a potential significant increase in our indebtedness and related interest expense. We undertake due diligence efforts in our assessment of acquisitions, but may be unable to identify or fully plan for all issues and risks associated with a particular acquisition. Even when an issue or risk is identified, we may be unable to obtain adequate contractual protection from the seller. The realization of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on the success of a particular acquisition or our consolidated financial position, results of operations or future growth. As part of our growth strategy, we may expand our operations into businesses that differ from our existing operations. Integration of new businesses is a complex, costly and time consuming process and may involve assets with which we have limited operating experience. Failure to timely and successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial position or results of operations. In addition to the risks set forth above, new businesses will subject us to additional business and operating risks, such as the acquisitions not being accretive to our unitholders as a result of decreased profitability, increased interest expense related to debt we incur to make such acquisitions or an inability to successfully integrate those operations into our overall business operations. The realization of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. At March 31, 2020 , the face amount of our long term debt was $32 billion . Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make principal and interest payments on our debt; we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt will depend on, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic and weather conditions, and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our future indebtedness, we would be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may be unable to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. The agreements governing our indebtedness permit us to incur additional debt under certain circumstances, and we will likely need to incur additional debt in order to implement our growth strategy. We may experience adverse consequences from increased levels of debt. Restrictions in the Credit Agreement, Term Credit Agreement and Indentures could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, ability to make distributions to unitholders and the value of our common units. The Credit Agreement, Term Credit Agreement and Indentures limit our ability to, among other things incur additional debt or issue letters of credit; redeem or repurchase units; make certain loans, investments and acquisitions; incur certain liens or permit them to exist; engage in sale and leaseback transactions; enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions; change the nature of our business or enter into a substantially different business; merge or consolidate with another company; and transfer or otherwise dispose of assets. 27 We are permitted to make distributions to our unitholders under the Credit Agreement, Term Credit Agreement and Indentures as long as no default or event of default exists both immediately before and after giving effect to the declaration and payment of the distribution and the distribution does not exceed available cash for the applicable quarterly period. The Credit Agreement, Term Credit Agreement and Indentures also contain covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for a further discussion. The provisions of the Credit Agreement, Term Credit Agreement and Indentures may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of the Credit Agreement and Term Credit Agreement could result in a covenant violation, default or an event of default that could enable our lenders, subject to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement and Term Credit Agreement, to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay the accelerated amounts, our lenders could proceed against the collateral we granted them to secure our debts. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, defaults under our other debt instruments, if any then exist, may be triggered, and our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our common unit price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt, and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on our existing and future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield oriented securities, our common unit price will be impacted by our level of cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield oriented securities for investment decision making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our common units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our common unit price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to make payments on our debt obligations and cash distributions at our intended levels. Our business depends on the availability of crude oil, natural gas liquids, and refined products in the United States and Canada, which is dependent on the ability and willingness of other parties to explore for and produce crude oil and natural gas. Spending on crude oil and natural gas exploration and production may be adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control. Our business depends on domestic spending by the oil and natural gas industry, and this spending and our business have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions and existing or new regulations, such as those related to environmental matters, that are beyond our control. We depend on the ability and willingness of other entities to make operating and capital expenditures to explore for, develop, and produce crude oil and natural gas in the United States and Canada, and to extract natural gas liquids from natural gas as well as the availability of necessary pipeline transportation and storage capacity. Customers expectations of lower market prices for crude oil and natural gas, as well as the availability of capital for operating and capital expenditures, may cause them to curtail spending, thereby reducing business opportunities and demand for our services and equipment. Actual market conditions and producers expectations of market conditions for crude oil and natural gas liquids may also cause producers to curtail spending, thereby reducing business opportunities and demand for our services. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, such as the availability of commercially viable geographic areas in which to explore and produce crude oil and natural gas, the availability of liquids rich natural gas needed to produce natural gas liquids, the supply of and demand for crude oil and natural gas, environmental restrictions on the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas, such as existing and proposed regulation of hydraulic fracturing, domestic and worldwide economic conditions, political instability in crude oil and natural gas producing countries and merger and divestiture activity among our current or potential customers. The volatility of the oil and natural gas industry and the resulting impact on exploration and production activity could adversely impact the level of drilling activity. This reduction may cause a decline in business opportunities or the demand for our services, or adversely affect the price of our services. Reduced discovery rates of new crude oil and natural gas reserves in our market areas also may have a negative long term impact on our business, even in an environment of stronger crude oil and natural gas prices, to the extent existing production is not replaced. The crude oil and natural gas production industry tends to run in cycles and may, at any time, cycle into a downturn; if that occurs, the rate at which it returns to former levels, if ever, will be uncertain. Prior adverse changes in the global economic 28 environment and capital markets and declines in prices for crude oil and natural gas have caused many customers to reduce capital budgets for future periods and have caused decreased demand for crude oil and natural gas. Limitations on the availability of capital, or higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures have caused and may continue to cause customers to make additional reductions to capital budgets in the future even if commodity prices increase from current levels. These cuts in spending may curtail drilling programs and other discretionary spending, which could result in a reduction in business opportunities and demand for our services, the rates we can charge and our utilization. In addition, certain of our customers could become unable to pay their suppliers, including us. Any of these conditions or events could materially and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Declining crude oil prices and crude production volumes could adversely impact our Water Solutions and Crude Oil Logistics businesses. In March 2020, crude oil spot and forward prices experienced a substantial decline. The structure of the market has moved from mild backwardation to significant contango. The volume of water we process and crude oil we transport is driven in large part by the level of crude oil production. Lower crude oil prices provide the producers with less incentive to spend on capital expenditures, which results in few drilling rigs and lower amounts of production, which negatively impacts our disposal volumes. In addition, a portion of our profitability in our Water Solutions business is generated from the sale of crude oil that we recover when processing produced water , and lower crude oil prices have an adverse impact on these profits if not hedged. A further decline in crude oil prices or a prolonged period of low crude oil prices could have an adverse effect on our Water Solutions and Crude Oil Logistics businesses. Our profitability could be negatively impacted by price and inventory risk related to our business. The Crude Oil Logistics and Liquids and Refined Products businesses are margin based businesses in which our realized margins depend on the differential of sales prices over our total supply costs. Our profitability is therefore sensitive to changes in product prices caused by changes in supply, pipeline transportation and storage capacity or other market conditions. Generally, we attempt to maintain an inventory position that is substantially balanced between our purchases and sales, including our future delivery obligations. We attempt to obtain a certain margin for our purchases by selling our product to our customers, which include third party consumers, other wholesalers and retailers, and others. However, market, weather or other conditions beyond our control may disrupt our expected supply of product, and we may be required to obtain supply at increased prices that cannot be passed through to our customers. In general, product supply contracts permit suppliers to charge posted prices at the time of delivery or the current prices established at major storage points, creating the potential for sudden and drastic price fluctuations. Sudden and extended wholesale price increases could reduce our margins. Conversely, a prolonged decline in product prices could potentially result in a reduction of the borrowing base under our working capital facility, and we could be required to liquidate inventory that we have already presold. 1 of the strategies of our Liquids and Refined Products segment is to purchase refined products in the Gulf Coast and West Coast and transport the product on the third party pipelines for sale in the Southwest. We are subject to the risk of a price decline between the time we purchase refined products and the time we sell the products. We seek to mitigate this risk by entering into NYMEX futures contracts. However, price changes in locations where we operate do not correspond directly with changes in prices in the NYMEX futures market, and as a result these futures contracts cannot be perfect hedges of our commodity price risk. We are affected by competition from other midstream, transportation, and terminaling and storage companies, some of which are larger and more firmly established and may have greater resources than we do. We experience competition in all of our segments. In our Liquids and Refined Products segment, we compete for natural gas liquids supplies and also for customers for our services. Our competitors include major integrated oil companies, interstate and intrastate pipelines and companies that gather, compress, treat, process, transport, store and market natural gas. Our natural gas liquids terminals compete with other terminaling and storage providers in the transportation and storage of natural gas liquids. Natural gas and natural gas liquids also compete with other forms of energy, including electricity, coal, fuel oil and renewable or alternative energy. We also face significant competition for refined products supplies and also for customers for our services. Our Crude Oil Logistics segment faces significant competition for crude oil supplies and also for customers for our services. These operations also face competition from trucking companies for incremental and marginal volumes in the areas we serve. Further, our crude oil terminals compete with terminals owned by integrated petroleum companies, refining and marketing companies, independent terminal companies and distribution companies with marketing and trading operations. 29 Our Water Solutions segment is in direct and indirect competition with other businesses, including disposal and other produced water treatment businesses. We can make no assurance that we will compete successfully in each of our lines of business. If a competitor attempts to increase market share by reducing prices, we may lose customers, which would reduce our revenues. Our business would be adversely affected if service at our principal storage facilities or on the common carrier pipelines or railroads we use is interrupted. We use third party common carrier pipelines to transport our products and we use third party facilities to store our products. Any significant interruption in the service at these storage facilities or on the common carrier pipelines we use would adversely affect our ability to obtain products. We transport natural gas liquids, ethanol, and biodiesel by railcar. We do not own or operate the railroads on which these railcars are transported. Any disruptions in the operations of these railroads could adversely impact our ability to deliver product to our customers. The fees charged to customers under our agreements with them for the transportation and marketing of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids, gasoline , diesel, ethanol, and biodiesel may not escalate sufficiently to cover increases in costs and the agreements may be suspended in some circumstances, which would affect our profitability. Our costs may increase more rapidly than the fees that we charge to customers pursuant to our contracts with them. Additionally, some customers obligations under their agreements with us may be permanently or temporarily reduced upon the occurrence of certain events, some of which are beyond our control, including force majeure events wherein the supply of crude oil, condensate, and or natural gas liquids are curtailed or cut off. Force majeure events include (but are not limited to) revolutions, wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, acts of God, explosions, mechanical or physical failures of our equipment or facilities of our customers. If the escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs, or if any customer suspends or terminates its contracts with us, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Our sales of crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids, gasoline , diesel, ethanol, and biodiesel and related transportation and hedging activities, and our processing of produced water, expose us to potential regulatory risks. The FTC, the FERC, and the CFTC hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and financial energy commodity markets. With regard to our physical sales of energy commodities, and any related transportation and or hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe the market related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Our sales may also be subject to certain reporting and other requirements. Additionally, some of our operations are currently subject to the FERC regulations obligating us to comply with the FERC regulations and policies applicable to those assets and operations. Other of our operations may become subject to the FERC jurisdiction in the future (see Some of our operations are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC and other operations may become subject in the future , below). Any failure on our part to comply with the FERC regulations and policies at that time could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and financial position. The intrastate transportation or storage of crude oil and refined products is subject to regulation by the state in which the facilities are located and transactions occur. Compliance with these state regulations could have a material and adverse effect on that portion of our business, consolidated results of operations and financial position. The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd Frank Act ) provides for statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, including crude oil, refined and renewable products, and natural gas hedging transactions. Certain transactions will be required to be cleared on exchanges and cash collateral will have to be posted. The Dodd Frank Act provides for a potential exemption from these clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end users and it includes a number of defined terms that will be used in determining how this exemption applies to particular derivative transactions and the parties to those transactions. Since the Dodd Frank Act mandates the CFTC to promulgate rules to define these terms, the full impact of the Dodd Frank Act on our hedging activities is uncertain at this time. However, new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that we encounter, reduce our ability to m1tize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less credi2rthy counterparties. The Dodd Frank Act may also materially affect our customers and materially and adversely affect the demand for our services. 30 We are subject to trucking safety regulations, which are enacted, reviewed and amended by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration ( FMCSA ). If our current DOT safety ratings are downgraded to Unsatisfactory , our business and results of our operations may be adversely affected. All federally regulated carriers safety ratings are measured through a program implemented by the FMCSA known as the Compliance Safety Accountability ( CSA ) program. The CSA program measures a carrier safety performance based on violations observed during roadside inspections as opposed to compliance audits performed by the FMCSA. The quantity and severity of any violations are compared to a peer group of companies of comparable size and annual mileage. If a company rises above a threshold established by the FMCSA, it is subject to action from the FMCSA. There is a progressive intervention strategy that begins with a company providing the FMCSA with an acceptable plan of corrective action that the company will implement. If the issues are not corrected, the intervention escalates to on site compliance audits and ultimately an unsatisfactory rating and the revocation of the company operating authority by the FMCSA, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and financial position and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our business is subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations with respect to environmental, safety and other regulatory matters and the cost of compliance with, violation of or liabilities under, such laws and regulations could adversely affect our profitability. Our operations, including those involving crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids, refined products, renewables, and crude oil and natural gas produced water, are subject to stringent federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of natural resources and the environment, health and safety, waste management, and transportation and disposal of such products and materials. We face inherent risks of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities due to handling of produced water and hydrocarbons, such as crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids, gasoline, diesel, ethanol, and biodiesel. For instance, our Water Solutions business carries with it environmental risks, including leakage from the treatment plants to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater, or accidental spills. Our Crude Oil Logistics and Liquids and Refined Products businesses carry similar risks of leakage and sudden or accidental spills of crude oil, natural gas liquids, and hydrocarbons. Liability under, or violation of, environmental laws and regulations could result in, among other things, the impairment or cancellation of operations, injunctions, fines and penalties, reputational damage, expenditures for remediation and liability for natural resource damages, property damage and personal injuries. We use various modes of transportation to carry natural gas liquids, crude oil, refined and renewable products and water, including trucks, railcars, barges, and pipelines, each of which is subject to regulation. With respect to transportation by truck, we are subject to regulations promulgated under federal legislation, including the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act and the Homeland Security Act of 2002, which cover the security and transportation of hazardous materials and are administered by the DOT. We also own and lease a fleet of railcars, the operation of which is subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Federal Railroad Administration of the DOT, as well as other federal and state regulatory agencies. Railcar accidents within the industry involving trains carrying crude oil from the Bakken region (n1 of which directly involved any of our business operations), have led to increased legislative and regulatory scrutiny over the safety of transporting crude oil by railcar. The introduction of regulations that result in new requirements addressing the type, design, specifications or construction of railcars used to transport crude oil could result in severe transportation capacity constraints during the periods in which new railcars are constructed to meet new specifications or in which the railcars already placed in service are being retrofitted. Our barge transportation operations are subject to the J1s Act, a federal law generally restricting marine transportation in the United States to vessels built and registered in the United States, and manned owned by United States citizens, as well as setting forth the rules and regulations of the United States Coast Guard. Non compliance with any of these regulations could result in increased costs related to the transportation of our products and could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, under certain environmental laws, we could be subject to strict and or joint and several liability for the investigation, removal or remediation of previously released materials. As a result, these laws could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others, such as prior owners or operators of our facilities, or for consequences of our or our predecessor actions, regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or if such actions were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time of those actions. Also, upon closure of certain facilities, such as at the end of their useful life, we have been and may be required to undertake environmental evaluations or cleanups. Additionally, in order to conduct our operations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and other authorizations from various federal, state, provincial and local governmental authorities relating to produced water handling, discharge and disposal, air emissions, transportation and other environmental matters. These authorizations subject us to terms and conditions which may be 1rous or costly to comply with, and that may require costly operational modifications to attain 31 and maintain compliance. The renewal, amendment or modification of these permits, approvals and other authorizations may involve the imposition of even more stringent and burdensome terms and conditions with attendant higher costs and more significant effects upon our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently. New laws or regulations, changes to existing laws or regulations, such as more stringent pollution control requirements or additional safety requirements, or more stringent interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations, may adversely impact us, and could result in increased operating costs and have a material and adverse effect on our activities and profitability. For example, new or proposed laws or regulations governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our costs for treatment of hydraulic fracturing flowback water (or affect our hydraulic fracturing customers ability to operate) and cause delays, interruption or termination of our water treatment operations, all of which could have a material and adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position. Furthermore, our customers in the oil and gas production industry are subject to certain environmental laws and regulations that may impose significant costs and liabilities on them. Any significant increased costs or restrictions placed on our customers to comply with environmental laws and regulations could affect their production output significantly. Such an effect on our customers could materially and adversely affect our utilization and profitability by reducing demand for our services. The adoption or implementation of any new regulations imposing additional reporting obligations on greenhouse gas emissions, or limiting greenhouse gas emissions from our equipment and operations, could require us to incur significant costs. State and federal legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to our hydraulic fracturing customers could harm our business. Hydraulic fracturing is a common practice within the oil and gas exploration and production process, including within those fields where are our Water Solutions and Crude Oil Logistics segments operate. The practice of hydraulic fracturing is a well stimulation technique utilized to facilitate the production of oil and natural gas and other hydrocarbon condensates from shale and tight conventional formations. The exploration and production process, including the practice of hydraulic fracturing, is subject to regulation by state and federal authorities. Jurisdiction and applicable regulatory requirements can vary depending on the location of the activity. The process of hydraulic fracturing has come under considerable scrutiny from sections of the public as well as environmental and other groups asserting that chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. New laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations in response to this perceived threat may adversely impact the oil and gas drilling industry. Any current or proposed restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult or costly to perform hydraulic fracturing which would negatively impact our customer base resulting in an adverse effect on our profitability. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to saltwater disposal wells could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and could harm our business. The water disposal process is primarily regulated by state oil and gas authorities. This water disposal process has come under scrutiny from sections of the public as well as environmental and other groups asserting that the operation of certain water disposal wells has caused increased seismic activity. New laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations, in response to this perceived threat may adversely impact the water disposal industry. On certain occasions, a state regulatory agency has requested that we suspend operations at a specified disposal facility, pending further study of its potential impact on seismic activity. In 1 instance we have modified a disposal well to redirect the flow of water to a different area of the geologic formation in order to address such concerns. We cannot predict whether any federal, state or local laws or regulations will be enacted and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. However, any restrictions on water disposal could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult or costly to perform water disposal operations, which would negatively impact our profitability. Seasonal weather conditions and natural or man made disasters could severely disrupt normal operations and have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We operate in various locations across the United States and Canada which may be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and natural or man made disasters. During periods of heavy snow, ice, rain or extreme weather conditions such as high winds, tornados and hurricanes or after other natural disasters such as earthquakes or wildfires, we may be unable 32 to move our trucks or railcars between locations and our facilities may be damaged, thereby reducing our ability to provide services and generate revenues. In addition, hurricanes or other severe weather in the Gulf Coast region could seriously disrupt the supply of products and cause serious shortages in various areas, including the areas in which we operate. These same conditions may cause serious damage or destruction to homes, business structures and the operations of customers. Such disruptions could potentially have a material adverse impact on our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Risk management procedures cannot eliminate all commodity risk, basis risk, or risk of adverse market conditions which can adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. In addition, any non compliance with our risk policy could result in significant financial losses. Pursuant to the requirements of our market risk policy, we attempt to lock in a margin for a portion of the commodities we purchase by selling such commodities for physical delivery to our customers, such as independent refiners or major oil companies, or by entering into future delivery obligations under contracts for forward sale. We also enter into financial derivative contracts, such as futures, to manage commodity price risk. Through these transactions, we seek to maintain a position that is substantially balanced between purchases on the 1 hand, and sales or future delivery obligations on the other hand. These policies and practices cannot, however, eliminate all risks. For example, any event that disrupts our anticipated physical supply of commodities could expose us to risk of loss resulting from the need to cover obligations required under contracts for forward sale. Basis risk describes the inherent market price risk created when a commodity of certain grade or location is purchased, sold or exchanged as compared to a purchase, sale or exchange of a like commodity at a different time or place. Transportation costs and timing differentials are comp1nts of timing risk. In a backwardated market (when prices for future deliveries are lower than current prices), timing risk is created. In these instances, physical inventory generally loses value as the price of such physical inventory declines over time. Timing risk cannot be entirely eliminated, and basis exposure, particularly in backwardated or other adverse market conditions, can adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. The counterparties to our commodity derivative and physical purchase and sale contracts may not be able to perform their obligations to us, which could materially affect our cash flows and results of operations. We encounter risk of counterparty nonperformance in our businesses. Disruptions in the supply of product and in the crude oil and natural gas liquids commodities sector overall for an extended or near term period of time could result in counterparty defaults on our derivative and physical purchase and sale contracts. This could impair our ability to obtain supply to fulfill our sales delivery commitments or obtain supply at reasonable prices, which could result in decreased gross margins and profitability, thereby impairing our ability to make payments on our debt obligations or distributions to our unitholders. Our use of derivative financial instruments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have used derivative financial instruments as a means to protect against commodity price risk and expect to continue to do so. We may, as a comp1nt of our overall business strategy, increase or decrease from time to time our use of such derivative financial instruments in the future. Our use of such derivative financial instruments could cause us to forego the economic benefits we would otherwise realize if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in our favor. In addition, although we monitor such activities in our risk management processes and procedures, such activities could result in losses, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and impair our ability to make payments on our debt obligations or distributions to our unitholders. Some of our operations are subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC and other operations may become subject in the future . The FERC regulates the transportation of crude oil and refined products on interstate pipelines, among other things. Intrastate transportation and gathering pipelines that do not provide interstate services are not subject to regulation by the FERC. The distinction between the FERC regulated interstate pipeline transportation on the 1 hand and intrastate pipeline transportation on the other hand, is a fact based determination. The Grand Mesa Pipeline became operational on November 1, 2016 and has several points of origin in Colorado, runs from those origin points through Kansas and terminates in Cushing, Oklahoma. The transportation services on the Grand Mesa Pipeline are subject to FERC regulation. Other of our transportation services could in the future become subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC, which could adversely affect the terms of service, rates and revenues of such services. 33 The classification and regulation of our crude oil pipelines are subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC, federal courts, Congress or regulatory commissions, courts or legislatures in the states in which we operate. If the FERC regulatory reach was expanded to our other facilities, or if we expand our operations into areas that are subject to the FERC regulation, we may have to commit substantial capital to comply with such regulations and such expenditures could have a material and adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. Volumes of crude oil recovered during the produced water treatment process can vary. Any significant reduction in residual crude oil content in produced water we treat will affect our recovery of crude oil and, therefore, our profitability. A portion of our profitability in our Water Solutions business is generated from the sale of crude oil that we recover when processing produced water . Our ability to recover sufficient volumes of crude oil is dependent upon the residual crude oil content in the produced water we treat, which is, among other things, a function of water temperature. Generally, where water temperature is higher, residual crude oil content is lower. Thus, our crude oil recovery during the winter season is substantially higher than our recovery during the summer season. Additionally, residual crude oil content will decrease if, among other things, producers begin recovering higher levels of crude oil in produced water prior to delivering such water to us for treatment. Any reduction in residual crude oil content in the produced water we treat could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Competition from alternative energy sources may cause us to lose customers, thereby negatively impacting our financial position and results of operations. Propane competes with other sources of energy, some of which are less costly for equivalent energy value. We compete for customers against suppliers of electricity, natural gas and fuel oil. Competition from alternative energy sources, including electricity, natural gas and renewables, has increased as a result of reduced regulation of many utilities. Electricity is a major competitor of propane, but propane in some regions has historically had a competitive price advantage over electricity. Except for some industrial and commercial applications, propane is generally not competitive with natural gas in areas where natural gas pipelines already exist because such pipelines generally make it possible for the delivered cost of natural gas to be less expensive than the bulk delivery of propane. The expansion of natural gas into traditional propane markets has historically been inhibited by the capital cost required to expand distribution and pipeline systems; however, the gradual expansion of the nation natural gas distribution systems has resulted in natural gas being available in areas that previously depended on propane, which could cause us to lose customers, thereby reducing our revenues. Although propane is similar to fuel oil in some applications and market demand, propane and fuel oil compete to a lesser extent primarily because of the cost of converting from 1 to the other. We cannot predict the effect that development of alternative energy sources may have on our operations, including whether subsidies of alternative energy sources by local, state, and federal governments might be expanded, or what impact this might have on the supply of or the demand for crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids. Energy efficiency and new technology may reduce the demand for propane and adversely affect our operating results. The national trend toward increased conservation and technological advances, such as installation of improved insulation and the development of more efficient furnaces and other appliances, has adversely affected the demand for propane and distillates by retail customers. Future conservation measures or technological advances in appliance efficiency, power generation or other devices may reduce demand for propane. In addition, if the price of propane increases, some of our customers may increase their conservation efforts and thereby decrease their consumption of propane. Reduced demand for refined products could have an adverse effect our results of operations. Any sustained decrease in demand for refined products in the markets we serve could reduce our cash flow. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include a recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by consumers on gasoline, diesel, and travel; higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase, directly or indirectly, the cost of gasoline; an increase in automotive engine fuel economy, whether as a result of a shift by consumers to more fuel efficient vehicles or technological advances by manufacturers; 34 an increase in the market price of crude oil that leads to higher refined product prices, which may reduce demand for refined products and drive demand for alternative products; and the increased use of alternative fuel sources, such as battery powered engines. The expiration of tax credits could adversely impact the demand for biodiesel, which could adversely impact our results of operations. The demand for biodiesel is supported by certain federal tax credits. These tax credits have typically been granted for short durations, and on several occasions these tax credits have expired. In December 2019, the federal government passed a law to reinstate the tax credit retroactively to January 1, 2018, with the credit expiring on December 31, 2022 There can be no assurance that the federal government will grant such tax credits in the future. If the federal government were to discontinue the practice of granting such tax credits, this would likely have an adverse effect on demand for biodiesel and on our biodiesel marketing operations. A loss of 1 or more significant customers could materially or adversely affect our results of operations. We expect to continue to depend on key customers to support our revenues for the foreseeable future. The loss of key customers, failure to renew contracts upon expiration, or a sustained decrease in demand by key customers could result in a substantial loss of revenues and could have a material and adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. During the year ended March 31, 2020 , a significant portion of our revenues was dependent on key customers as summarized below 77% of the revenues of our Crude Oil Logistics segment were generated from our ten largest customers of the segment ; 52% of the water treatment and disposal revenues of our Water Solutions segment were generated from our ten largest customers of the segment ; and 22% of the revenues of our Liquids and Refined Products segment were generated from our ten largest customers of the segment . Additionally, certain key customers of the Grand Mesa Pipeline contribute significantly to the cash flows and profitability of that asset. Any loss of those customers or their contracts could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Certain of our operations are conducted through joint ventures which have unique risks. Certain of our operations are conducted through joint ventures. With respect to our joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibilities with partners that may not share our goals and objectives. Differences in views among the partners may result in delayed decisions or failures to agree on major matters, such as large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets or borrowing m1y, among others. Delay or failure to agree may prevent action with respect to such matters, even though such action may serve our best interest or that of the joint venture. Accordingly, delayed decisions and disagreements could adversely affect the business and operations of the joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations. From time to time, our joint ventures may be involved in disputes or legal proceedings which may negatively affect our investments. Accordingly, any such occurrences could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Growing our business by constructing new transportation systems and facilities subjects us to construction risks and risks that supplies for such systems and facilities will not be available upon completion thereof. 1 of the ways we intend to grow our business is through the construction of additions to our systems and or the construction of new terminaling, transportation, and produced water treatment facilities. These expansion projects require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our resources, and involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, including political opposition by landowners, environmental activists and others. There can be no assurance that we will complete these projects on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. Our revenues may not increase upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. Moreover, we may undertake expansion projects to capture anticipated future growth in production in a region in which anticipated production growth does not materialize or for which we are unable to acquire new customers. We may also rely on estimates of proved, probable or possible reserves in our decision to undertake expansion projects, which may prove to be inaccurate. As a result, our new facilities and infrastructure may not be able to attract enough product to achieve our expected investment return, which could materially and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position. 35 We may face opposition to the operation of our pipelines and facilities from various groups. We may face opposition to the operation of our pipelines and facilities from environmental groups, landowners, tribal groups, local groups and other advocates. Such opposition could take many forms, including organized protests, attempts to block or sabotage our operations, intervention in regulatory or administrative proceedings involving our assets, or lawsuits or other actions designed to prevent, disrupt or delay the operation of our assets and business. For example, repairing our pipelines often involves securing consent from individual landowners to access their property; 1 or more landowners may resist our efforts to make needed repairs, which could lead to an interruption in the operation of the affected pipeline or facility for a period of time that is significantly longer than would have otherwise been the case. In addition, acts of sabotage or eco terrorism could cause significant damage or injury to people, property or the environment or lead to extended interruptions of our operations. Any such event that interrupts the revenues generated by our operations, or which causes us to make significant expenditures not covered by insurance, could reduce our cash available for paying distributions to our partners and, accordingly, adversely affect our financial condition and the market price of our securities. Product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our operations are subject to all operating hazards and risks incident to handling, storing, transporting and providing customers with combustible liquids. As a result, we are subject to product liability claims and litigation, including potential class actions, in the ordinary course of business. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could be costly to defend and could result in an increase of our insurance premiums. Some claims brought against us might not be covered by our insurance policies. In addition, we have self insured retention amounts which we would have to pay in full before obtaining any insurance proceeds to satisfy a judgment or settlement and we may have insufficient reserves on our balance sheet to satisfy such self retention obligations. Furthermore, even where the claim is covered by our insurance, our insurance coverage might be inadequate and we would have to pay the amount of any settlement or judgment that is in excess of our policy limits. Our failure to maintain adequate insurance coverage or successfully defend against product liability claims could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. A failure in our operational systems or cyber security attacks on any of our facilities, or those of third parties, may adversely affect our financial results. Our business is dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. If any of our financial or operational systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our financial results could also be adversely affected if an employee causes our systems to fail, either as a result of inadvertent error or by deliberately tampering with or manipulating our systems. In addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk related to operational system flaws, and employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. Due to increased technology advances, we have become more reliant on technology to increase efficiency in our business. We use various systems in our financial and operations sectors, and this may subject our business to increased risks. Any future cyber security attacks that affect our facilities, our customers and any financial data could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, cyber attacks on our customer and employee data may result in a financial loss, including potential fines for failure to safeguard data, and may negatively impact our reputation. Third party systems on which we rely could also suffer operational system failure. Any of these occurrences could disrupt our business, resulting in potential liability or reputational damage or otherwise have an adverse effect on our financial results. We lease certain facilities and equipment and therefore are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land and equipment use. We do not own all of the land on which our facilities are located, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of more 1rous terms and or increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid rights of way or if our facilities are not properly located within the boundaries of such rights of way. Additionally, our loss of rights, through our inability to renew right of way contracts or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated results of operations and financial position. Additionally, certain facilities and equipment (or parts thereof) used by us are leased from third parties for specific periods, including many of our railcars. Our inability to renew facility or equipment leases or otherwise maintain the right to utilize such facilities and equipment on acceptable terms, or the increased costs to maintain such rights, could have a material and adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. 36 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, including internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units. We are subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We are also subject to the obligation under Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 to annually review and report on our internal control over financial reporting, and to the obligation under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 to engage our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud, and operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. Our efforts to maintain our internal controls may be unsuccessful, and we may be unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, including our disclosure controls. Any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. These risks may be heightened after a business combination, during the phase when we are implementing our internal control structure over the recently acquired business. Given the difficulties inherent in the design and operation of internal control over financial reporting, as well as future growth of our businesses, we can provide no assurance as to either our or our independent registered public accounting firm conclusions about the effectiveness of internal controls in the future, and we may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Ineffective internal controls could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the market price of our common units. An impairment of goodwill and long lived assets could reduce our earnings. At March 31, 2020 , we had goodwill and long lived assets of $5.6 billion . Such assets are subject to impairment reviews on an annual basis, or at an interim date if information indicates that such asset values have been impaired. Any impairment we would be required to record in our financial statements would result in a charge to our income, which would reduce our earnings. We recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $250.0 million during the year ended March 31, 2020 due to the current macroeconomic conditions, including the collapse of oil prices driven by both the decrease in demand caused by the COVID 19 pandemic and excess supply, as well as changing market conditions and expected lower crude oil production in certain regions, resulting in expected decreases in future cash flows for certain of our assets in our Water Solutions segment. Our business requires extensive credit risk management that may not be adequate to protect against customer nonpayment. Our credit management procedures may not fully eliminate the risk of nonpayment by our customers. We manage our credit risk exposure through credit analysis, credit approvals, establishing credit limits, requiring prepayments (partially or wholly), requiring product deliveries over defined time periods, and credit monitoring. While we believe our procedures are effective, we can provide no assurance that bad debt write offs in the future may not be significant and any such nonpayment problems could impact our consolidated results of operations and potentially limit our ability to make payments on our debt obligations or distributions to our unitholders. Our terminaling operations depend on various forms of transportation for receipt and delivery of crude oil, natural gas liquids and refined products. We own natural gas liquids and crude oil terminals and lease refined products terminals. The facilities depend on pipelines, railroads, truck transports, and storage systems that are owned and operated by third parties. Any interruption of service on pipeline, railroad or lateral connections or adverse change in the terms and conditions of service could have a material adverse effect on our ability, and the ability of our customers, to transport product to and from our facilities and have a corresponding material adverse effect on our revenues. In addition, the rates charged by the interconnected pipelines for transportation to and from our facilities impact the utilization and value of our terminals. We have historically been able to pass through the costs of pipeline transportation to our customers. However, if competing pipelines do not have similar annual tariff increases or service fee adjustments, such increases could affect our ability to compete, thereby adversely affecting our revenues. 37 Our marketing operations depend on the availability of transportation and storage capacity. Our product supply is transported and stored in facilities owned and operated by third parties. Any interruption of service on the pipeline or storage companies or adverse change in the terms and conditions of service could have a material adverse effect on our ability, and the ability of our customers, to transport products and have a corresponding material adverse effect on our revenues. In addition, the rates charged by the interconnected pipelines for transportation affects the profitability of our operations. The financial results of our natural gas liquids businesses are seasonal and generally lower in the first and second quarters of our fiscal year, which may require us to borrow m1y to make distributions to our unitholders during these quarters. The natural gas liquids inventory we have presold to customers is highest during summer months, and our cash receipts are lowest during summer months. As a result, our cash available for distribution for the summer is much lower than for the winter. With lower cash flow during the first and second fiscal quarters, we may be required to borrow m1y to pay distributions to our unitholders during these quarters. Any restrictions on our ability to borrow m1y could restrict our ability to pay the minimum quarterly distributions to our unitholders. A significant increase in fuel prices may adversely affect our transportation costs. Fuel is a significant operating expense for us in connection with the delivery of products to our customers. A significant increase in fuel prices will result in increased transportation costs to us. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events we cannot control, such as geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and weather concerns. As a result, any increases in these prices may adversely affect our profitability and competitiveness. Some of our operations cross the United States Canada border and are subject to cross border regulation. Our cross border activities subject us to regulatory matters, including import and export licenses, tariffs, Canadian and United States customs and tax issues, and toxic substance certifications. Such regulations include the Short Supply Controls of the Export Administration Act, the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Toxic Substances Control Act. Violations of these licensing, tariff and tax reporting requirements could result in the imposition of significant administrative, civil and criminal penalties. The risk of terrorism and political unrest in various energy producing regions may adversely affect the economy and the price and availability of products. An act of terror in any of the major energy producing regions of the world could potentially result in disruptions in the supply of crude oil and natural gas, which could have a material impact on both availability and price. Terrorist attacks in the areas of our operations could negatively impact our ability to transport propane to our locations. These risks could potentially negatively impact our consolidated results of operations. We depend on the leadership and involvement of key personnel for the success of our businesses. We have certain key individuals in our senior management who we believe are critical to the success of our business. The loss of leadership and involvement of those key management personnel could potentially have a material adverse impact on our business and possibly on the market value of our common units. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our partnership agreement limits the fiduciary duties of our general partner to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise be breaches of fiduciary duty . Fiduciary duties owed to our unitholders by our general partner are prescribed by law and our partnership agreement. The Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act ( Delaware LP Act ) provides that Delaware limited partnerships may, in their partnership agreements, restrict the fiduciary duties owed by the general partner to limited partners and the partnership. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement 38 limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing common units, our unitholders consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law; permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the Partnership; provides that our general partner shall not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning our general partner subjectively believed that the decision was in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Partnership; generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of our unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be fair and reasonable to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is fair and reasonable, our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us; and provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for m1tary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder will become bound by the provisions of our partnership agreement, including the provisions described above. Our general partner and its affiliates have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties to our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders. The NGL Energy GP Investor Group owns and controls our general partner and its 0.1% general partner interest in us. Although our general partner has certain fiduciary duties to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the executive officers and directors of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owners. Furthermore, since certain executive officers and directors of our general partner are executive officers or directors of affiliates of our general partner, conflicts of interest may arise between the NGL Energy GP Investor Group and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the 1 hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders (see Our partnership agreement limits the fiduciary duties of our general partner to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise be breaches of fiduciary duty , above). The risk to our unitholders due to such conflicts may arise because of the following factors, among others our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as members of the NGL Energy GP Investor Group, in resolving conflicts of interest; neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires owners of our general partner to pursue a business strategy that favors us; except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval; our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders; our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and to our general partner; our general partner determines which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us; 39 our general partner may cause us to borrow funds to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions; our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $20.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions to our general partner in respect of the general partner interest or the incentive distribution rights ( IDRs ); our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if they own more than 80% of the common units; our general partner controls the enforcement of the obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us; our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner IDRs without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations. In addition, certain members of the NGL Energy GP Investor Group and their affiliates currently hold interests in other companies in the energy and natural resource sectors. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership interest in us. However, members of the NGL Energy GP Investor Group are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. As a result, they could potentially compete with us for acquisition opportunities and for new business or extensions of the existing services provided by us. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors and owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. Even if our unitholders are dissatisfied, they have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen entirely by its members and not by our unitholders. Unlike publicly traded corporations, we will not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders of corporations. Furthermore, if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have limited ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting our unitholders ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Unitholders voting rights are further restricted by a provision of our partnership agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their 40 direct transferees and their indirect transferees approved by our general partner (which approval may be granted in its sole discretion) and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without the consent of our unitholders. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the members of the NGL Energy GP Investor Group to transfer all or a portion of their ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers. The IDRs of our general partner may be transferred to a third party. Prior to the first day of the first quarter beginning after the 10th anniversary of the closing date of our initial public offering ( IPO ), a transfer of IDRs by our general partner requires (except in certain limited circumstances) the consent of a majority of our outstanding common units (excluding common units held by our general partner and its affiliates). However, after the expiration of this period, our general partner may transfer its IDRs to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its IDRs to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its IDRs. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price that is not less than their then current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return or may receive a negative return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Cost reimbursements to our general partner may be substantial and could reduce our cash available to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf, which will be determined by our general partner in its sole discretion in accordance with the terms of our partnership agreement. In determining the costs and expenses allocable to us, our general partner is subject to its fiduciary duty, as modified by our partnership agreement, to the limited partners, which requires it to act in good faith. These expenses will include all costs incurred by our general partner and its affiliates in managing and operating us. We are managed and operated by executive officers and directors of our general partner. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates, will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders and will rely primarily on external financing sources, including commercial bank borrowings and the issuance of debt and equity securities, as well as reserves we have established to fund our acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. As a result, to the extent we are unable to finance growth externally, our cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations. To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement or the agreements governing our indebtedness on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units. The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. 41 We may issue additional units without the approval of our unitholders, which would dilute the interests of existing unitholders. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. Our issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects our existing unitholders proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; the amount of available cash for distribution on each unit may decrease; the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and the market price of the common units may decline. Our general partner, without the approval of our unitholders, may elect to cause us to issue common units while also maintaining its general partner interest in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its IDRs. This could result in lower distributions to our unitholders. Our general partner has the right to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will be equal to that number of common units that would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior 2 quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the IDRs in the prior 2 quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its IDRs and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions on its IDRs based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units and general partner interests to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Our unitholders liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our Partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. You could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state partnership statute; or a unitholder right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute control of our business. Our unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17 607 of the Delaware LP Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of 3 years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners 42 are liable both for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that were known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for those obligations that were unknown if the liabilities could have been determined from the partnership agreement. Neither liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests nor liabilities that are nonrecourse to the partnership are counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. For the purpose of determining the fair value of the assets of a limited partnership, the Delaware LP Act provides that the fair value of property subject to liability for which recourse of creditors is limited shall be included in the assets of the limited partnership only to the extent that the fair value of that property exceeds the nonrecourse liability. The Preferred Units give the holders thereof liquidation and distribution preferences over our common unitholders. We currently have 3 series of Preferred Units outstanding. All of these units rank senior to the common units with respect to distribution rights and rights upon liquidation. Subject to certain exceptions, as long as any Preferred Units remain outstanding, we may not declare any distribution on our common units unless all accumulated and unpaid distributions have been declared and paid on the Preferred Units. In the event of our liquidation, winding up or dissolution, the holders of the Preferred Units would have the right to receive proceeds from any such transaction before the holders of the common units. The payment of the liquidation preference could result in common unitholders not receiving any consideration if we were to liquidate, dissolve or wind up, either voluntarily or involuntarily. Additionally, the existence of the liquidation preference may reduce the value of the common units, make it harder for us to sell common units in offerings in the future, or prevent or delay a change of control. The issuance of common units upon exercise of the warrants may cause dilution to existing common unitholders and may place downward pressure on the trading price of our common units. We currently have outstanding exercisable options to purchase 25,500,000 common units at exercise prices ranging from $1356 to $17.45. Any exercise of these warrants may cause dilution to existing common unitholders and may place downward pressure on the trading price of our common units. The warrants may be exercised from and after the first anniversary of the date of issuance. Unexercised warrants will expire on the tenth anniversary of the date of issuance. The warrants will not participate in cash distributions. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We could lose our status as a partnership for a number of reasons, including not having enough qualifying income. If the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, a publicly traded partnership such as us will be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless, for each taxable year, 90% or more of its gross income is qualifying income under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Internal Revenue Code ). Qualifying income includes income and gains derived from the exploration, development, production, processing, transportation, storage and marketing of natural gas, natural gas products, and crude oil or other passive types of income such as certain interest and dividends and gains from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of income that otherwise constitutes qualifying income. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we are treated as a corporation, we could be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject to taxation as an entity if our gross income is not properly classified as qualifying income, there is a change in our business or there is a change in current law. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently 21% (changed from 35% under the recently enacted tax reform law), and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the market value of our common units. 43 Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity level taxation for federal income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. Our unitholders may be subject to limitation on their ability to deduct interest expense incurred by us. In general, our unitholders are entitled to a deduction for the interest we have paid or accrued on indebtedness properly allocable to our business during our taxable year. However, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Act ) signed into law by the President of the United States on December 22, 2017, beginning in tax year 2018, the deductibility of net interest expense is limited to 30% of our adjusted taxable income. For tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2022, the Act calculates adjusted taxable income using an EBITDA based calculation. For tax years beginning January 1, 2022 and thereafter, the calculation of adjusted taxable income will not add back depreciation or amortization. Any disallowed business interest expense is then generally carried forward as a deduction in a succeeding taxable year at the partner level. These limitations might cause interest expense to be deducted by our unitholders in a later period than recognized in the GAAP financial statements. If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to entity level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing United States federal income tax laws that affect the tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including as a result of any fundamental tax reform. We are unable to predict whether any such change or other proposals will ultimately be enacted or will affect our tax treatment. Any modification to the income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could, among other things, cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity level taxation. Moreover, such modifications and change in interpretations may affect or cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us, change the character or treatment of portions of our income and adversely affect an investment in our common units. Although we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted, any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. 44 If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be substantially reduced. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us. We will generally have the ability to shift any such tax liability to our general partner and our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so under all circumstances. If we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be substantially reduced. Our unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because we expect to be treated as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes, our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of the unitholder allocable share of our net taxable income decrease the unitholder tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units the unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture Item, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholder sells units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax exempt entities and non United States persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans, individual retirement accounts ( IRAs ), Keogh plans and other retirement plans and non United States persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non United States persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non United States persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a non United States person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the market value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. Any position we take that is inconsistent with applicable Treasury Regulations may have to be disclosed on our federal income tax return. This disclosure increases the likelihood that the IRS will challenge our positions and propose adjustments to some or all of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the market value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to tax returns of unitholders. We have subsidiaries that are treated as corporations for federal income tax purposes and subject to corporate level income taxes. We conduct a portion of our operations through subsidiaries that are corporations for federal income tax purposes. We may elect to conduct additional operations in corporate form in the future. Our corporate subsidiaries will be subject to 45 corporate level tax, which will reduce the cash available for distribution to us and, in turn, to our unitholders. If the IRS or other state or local jurisdictions were to successfully assert that our corporate subsidiaries have more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation was enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be further reduced. We prorate our Item of income, gain, loss and deduction for United States federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based on the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of Item of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our Item of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based on the ownership of our units on the first business day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The United States Department of the Treasury recently adopted final Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention for taxable years beginning on or after August 3, 2015. However, such regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of Item of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a short seller to effect a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, such unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize a gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a short seller to effect a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those common units, the unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize a gain or loss from the disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for United States federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. There are limits on the deductibility of our losses that may adversely affect our unitholders. There are a number of limitations that may prevent unitholders from using their allocable share of our losses as a deduction against unrelated income. In cases where our unitholders are subject to the passive loss rules (generally, individuals and closely held corporations), any losses generated by us will only be available to offset our future income and cannot be used to offset income from other activities, including other passive activities or investments. Unused losses may be deducted when the unitholder disposes of its entire investment in us in a fully taxable transaction with an unrelated party. A unitholder share of our net passive income may be offset by unused losses from us carried over from prior years but not by losses from other passive activities, including losses from other publicly traded partnerships. Other limitations that may further restrict the 46 deductibility of our losses by a unitholder include the at risk rules and the prohibition against loss allocations in excess of the unitholder tax basis in its units. Purchasers of our common units may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties. In addition to federal income taxes, holders of our common units are subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own or control property now or in the future. Holders of our common units are required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own assets and conduct business in a number of states, most of which impose a personal income tax on individuals. Most of these states also impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own or control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments N1 Item 2 Properties
