CIK: 1507957
Company Name: IDEAL POWER INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2020-03-31
Accession Number: 0001104659-20-040667


ITEM 1 BUSINESS Our Company Ideal Power Inc. was formed in Texas on May 17, 2007 and converted to a Delaware corporation on July 15, 2013 Unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise requires, the terms "Ideal Power," "we," "us," "our" and the "Company" refer to Ideal Power Inc. Until April 2018, we were primarily focused on the design, marketing and sale of electrical power conversion products using our proprietary technology called Power Packet Switching Architecture , or PPSA . PPSA is a power conversion technology that improves upon existing power conversion technologies in key product metrics, such as size and weight while providing built in isolation and bi directional and multi port capabilities. PPSA utilizes standardized hardware with application specific embedded software. Our products were designed to be used in both on grid and off grid applications with a focus on solar + storage, microgrid and stand al1 energy storage applications. The principal products of the Company were 30 kilowatt power conversion systems, including 2 port and multi port products. In April 2018, we realigned into 2 operating divisions Power Conversion Systems, to continue the commercialization of our PPSA technology, and B TRAN, to develop our Bi directional bi polar junction TRANsistor (B TRAN ) solid state switch technology. In January 2019, our Board of Directors approved a strategic shift to focus on the commercialization of our B TRAN technology and a plan to suspend further power converter system, or PPSA , development and sales while we located a buyer for our power conversion systems division and PPSA technology. On September 19, 2019, we closed on the sale of our power conversion systems division and are now solely focused on the further development and commercialization of our B TRAN technology. Prior to the sale of our PPSA business and technology in September 2019, we classified this division as held for sale. We show this division as a discontinued operation in our financial statements. To date, operations have been funded primarily through the sale of common stock and warrants. Total revenue generated from inception to date as of December 31, 2019 amounted to $14.9 million with approximately $124 million of that revenue from discontinued operations and the remainder from grant revenue for bi directional power switch development. We did not have revenue from continuing operations in the years ended December 31, 2019 or 2018. We may pursue additional research and development grants, if and when available, to further develop and or improve our technology. Sale of Power Conversion Systems Division On September 19, 2019, we closed on the sale of our power conversion systems division to CE+T Energy Solutions, Inc. ( CE+T Energy ) The consideration consisted of $200,000 in cash and 50 shares of CE+T Energy common stock, which represented a 5% ownership interest in CE+T Energy as of the closing date. We did not record any value of the equity consideration obtained in the sale as there is not currently a market for such shares and we do not have access to current financial information and future financial projections of CE+T Energy. CE+T Energy also assumed certain liabilities of the power conversion systems division in connection with the sale. The net cash proceeds from the sale were $23,587. On September 19, 2019, we entered into a sublease with CE+T Energy pursuant to which we sublease approximately seventy five (75%) percent of our Austin, Texas facility to CE+T Energy. Under the sublease, CE+T Energy is obligated to make monthly payments equal to 75% of all sums due under the master lease and 100% of any maintenance and repair costs related to the subleased premises. The sublease replaced a temporary agreement between us and CE+T Energy, effective July 22, 2019, that contained similar payment obligations by CE+T Energy for utilization of the subleased premises. Consistent with the master lease, the sublease terminates on May 31, 2021 Private Placement of Common Stock and Warrants On November 7, 2019, we entered into a securities purchase agreement with certain institutional and accredited investors, including Dr. Lon E. Bell, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, for a private placement of our common stock and warrants to purchase common stock for aggregate gross proceeds of $35 million and net proceeds of $31 million (the Offering ). The Offering closed on November 13, 2019. In the Offering, we issued an aggregate of (i) 544,950 shares of common stock at $24763 per share and (ii) pre funded warrants to purchase 868,443 shares of common stock that are immediately exercisable and have no expiration date, at a price of $24763 less a nominal exercise price of $0.001 per pre funded warrant. We also issued to the investors warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of 1,766,751 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $232 per share that are immediately exercisable and will expire five years from the issuance date. As compensation to the placement agent in the Offering, in addition to a cash fee for its services, we also issued to the placement agent a warrant to purchase up to 70,670 shares of common stock, with an exercise price of $29716 per share. The other terms of the placement agent warrant are substantially the same as the investor warrants. We have started utilizing, and expect to continue to utilize, the net proceeds from the Offering for working capital and general corporate purposes. 5 Industry Background A semiconductor material is a substance that, as its name suggests, is characterized for "conducting" electricity easily, while at the same time, working as an insulator to prevent the flow of electricity. By using semiconductors, it becomes possible to perform rectification for the 1 directional flow of electricity, amplification for increasing electrical signals, and switching to open and close the flow of electricity. Power semiconductors possess a structure that is different from regular semiconductors, enabling them to handle high voltages and large currents without damage. Failures may occur due to a rise in temperatures resulting from heat generated from handling large amounts of power. Therefore, methods have been developed to reduce the amount of power semiconductor loss, which is the cause of the heat generation, while also effectively releasing the generated heat to the outside. Power semiconductors are mostly used in power conversion such as in changing voltages and frequencies, as well as changing DC to AC and AC to DC. Power semiconductors play an indispensable role in accurately driving motors from low to high speeds, controlling the voltage and flow of electricity in electric and hybrid vehicles, supplying power grids with power generated from solar cells with less power loss, and providing a stable source of electricity to various home appliances and electrical equipment. In recent years, there has been a greater demand for energy savings and power consumption reductions, and as a result, the need for power semiconductors that minimize power loss has been increasing. Power semiconductors are solid state devices that act as a switch without any mechanical movement. Solid state devices are completely made from a solid material, typically silicon, and their flow of charges is confined within this sold material. The term solid state is often used to show a difference with the earlier technologies of vacuum and gas discharge tube devices and also to exclude the conventional electro mechanical devices such as relays, switches, hard drives and other devices with moving part. Solid state switches are typically more efficient due to lower losses during power processing. The $12 billion global power semiconductor market may be categorized by comp1nt, material, end use and geography. Based on comp1nt, the market includes power metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors ( MOSFETs ), thyristors, rectifiers, bipolar junction transistors, insulated gate bipolar transistors ( IGBTs ) and power diodes. With respect to material, the power semiconductor market is bifurcated into silicon germanium, silicon carbide and gallium nitride. The end use market is classified into automotive, industrial, renewable energy, telecommunication, consumer electronics, aerospace & defense, healthcare and others. Among these, automotive electronics accounts for significant consumption of power semiconductors. The number of semiconductors in vehicles has surged with the rising adoption of electric vehicles, plug in electric vehicles, and hybrid electric vehicles. Further, the advent of drive by wire or x by wire technologies have led to a rise in number of electric comp1nts in vehicles over mechanical vehicle parts. This rise helps reduce vehicle weight which is directly related to improved fuel efficiency and reduced vehicular emissions. The heavy consumption of power semiconductors across several end use markets such as industrial, automotive, consumer electronics and renewable energy is a key growth driver of the power semiconductor market. The telecommunications market is also a significant end user of power semiconductors. This segment displays demand for radio frequency ( RF ) power amplifiers and IGBTs among others. With the launch of 5G, we believe the demand for power semiconductors is likely to increase. Geographically, Asia Pacific accounts for the leading consumption of power semiconductors among other key regions. The region is also 1 of the leading exporters of power semiconductors in the world. The growth in the region is mainly attributed to China, which is the leading automotive and passenger vehicle market in the world. China is currently the leading consumer of power semiconductors. Furthermore, demand for power semiconductors is increasing from renewable energy sectors in the region. Europe and North America are also leading consumers of power semiconductors among others in the global market. Leading players in the global power semiconductor market include Infineon Technologies AG, Texas Instruments, ON Semiconductor, Fuji Electric Co. Ltd., ST Microelectronics N.V., Mitsubishi Electric Group, Semikron International GmbH, and Toshiba Corporation. While these companies are potential competitors, they are also potential licensees for our B TRAN technology as there is not, to our knowledge, a high efficiency bi directional design available in the market. 6 Our Technology To further improve the performance of our former bi directional PPSA technology and products, we identified the need for a true bi directional power switch and applied for and, in 2012, received a grant from the U.S. Department of Energy Advanced Research Projects Agency Energy ( ARPA E ) to develop a bi directional solid state power switch. At the outset, our efforts under the ARPA E grant were focused on the development of, including the manufacturing process development for, a bi directional insulated gate bipolar transistor ( BD IGBT ). Although work on BD IGBTs had previously been d1 by others in research labs, it was a technology that had not yet been commercialized. Our former PPSA based products incorporate multiple IGBTs, which are power switches used in the process to convert power from 1 current form to another. IGBTs switch current in only 1 direction and require the use of a blocking diode to prevent current from flowing back through the system. To enable our former PPSA products to perform bi directional power conversion, for each IGBT and diode used in our products, we were required to include a second IGBT and diode. These additional comp1nts have slight voltage drops that affect the electrical efficiency of our products and generate heat that must be dissipated. To eliminate the need to utilize four devices to create 1 bi directional switch and to improve the performance of bi directional switching, a true bi directional switch is necessary. While we initially focused on the development of a BD IGBT under the ARPA E grant, we shifted our focus under the grant to the development of a new, highly efficient power switch called a bi directional bipolar transistor, or B TRAN , that we believe will allow us to substitute 1 B TRAN for 2 pairs of IGBTs and diodes used in PPSA products but, more importantly, is a potential replacement for conventional power switches in the broader power semiconductor market. The B TRAN leverages many of the same processing steps we had developed for the BD IGBT while also providing us with certain key advantages including patentability and higher efficiency compared to a BD IGBT. Based on third party device software simulations and prototype testing, we believe that the B TRANs can significantly improve electrical efficiency in power converters and many other power conversion applications. The higher efficiency would substantially reduce the heat generated by the operation of products utilizing this technology. As a result, products incorporating B TRANs will require less space for heat dissipation which would enable increased power density, or power per pound, and reduce material costs. In 2016, 1 of our former semiconductor fabricators successfully tested single sided B TRAN silicon dies and the results were consistent with third party simulations that predict significant performance and efficiency improvements over conventional power switches such as silicon controlled rectifiers ( SCRs ), IGBTs and MOSFETs. In the second half of 2017, we shifted our focus to de risking the proof of concept phase of the B TRAN development timeline, as this phase of development was taking longer than anticipated due to the complexity of manufacturing complicated, 2 sided power semiconductor devices. To facilitate this, we engaged another semiconductor fabricator, on a parallel path, to produce a less complex to manufacture B TRAN on an accelerated schedule for proof of concept and initial testing. In the first quarter of 2018, we successfully confirmed the proof of concept of double sided B TRAN prototypes, validating the ability to make B TRAN semiconductor power switches using conventional silicon semiconductor fabrication equipment and processes. Test results on the standard double sided prototypes measured B TRAN electrical losses at less than 40% that of conventional power switches such as silicon IGBTs. In the second quarter of 2018, a domestic semiconductor fabricator was engaged for a development run of our standard version of B TRAN dies. In subsequent quarters and based on measurements and subsequent analysis of those results, we proceeded with the next phase, device fabrication. In 2019, 2 fabricators were contracted to produce the next generation of B TRAN wafers. These runs, which have been completed, incorporate the results of prior runs and subsequent testing into the B TRAN wafer fabrication. With the double sided transistor behavior and low conduction losses measured and upgrades and improvements in the manufacturing process implemented, the next goal is to complete the fabrication of prototype engineering samples for evaluation by potential partners. These samples will include a packaging design based on our previous work. Packaged double sided B TRAN dies are currently undergoing testing in our laboratory to generate switching data and evaluate the preliminary packaging design and build quality. Testing results to date are consistent with our simulations, earlier unpackaged die testing and the requirements of our engineering protype sampling program. Initial samples will be discrete packaged devices followed by packaged B TRAN dies with laboratory prototype drivers. The coupling of device samples with drivers will form the basis of an intelligent module. Business Strategy & Target Markets Once we have completed the fabrication of engineering samples for engineering evaluation and evaluation by potential customers and partners, we intend to engage target customers for our B TRAN utilizing a strategic partnership model. Potential target markets for B TRAN devices include, but are not limited to, uninterruptible power supplies, electric and hybrid vehicles electronic controls, industrial motor drives, direct current based distribution and transmission switches and controls and renewable energy and energy storage system power converters. We are currently in the process of fully developing our commercialization strategy for our B TRAN technology. 7 Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patents, laws that protect intellectual property, confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions with our employees and others to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. As of December 31, 2019, we had 35 US and 14 foreign issued patents on our B TRAN technology as well as over 35 additional pending U.S. and international patent applications on our B TRAN technology. Our first B TRAN patent issued in 2015 and our patents generally have a 20 year life prior to expiration. We expect to continue to build our patent estate for our B TRAN technology and other technological developments that broaden the scope of our technology platform. License Agreement In 2015, we entered into licensing agreements which expire on February 7, 2033 Per the agreements, we have an exclusive royalty free license associated with semiconductor power switches which enhances our intellectual property portfolio. The agreements include both fixed payments, all of which were paid prior to 2017, and ongoing variable payments. The variable payments are a function of the number of associated patent filings pending and patents issued under the agreements. We will pay $10,000 for each patent filing pending and $20,000 for each patent issued each year of the agreements, up to a maximum of $100,000 each year (i.e. five issued patents). In April 2019, a patent associated with these agreements was issued and we recorded, as a non cash activity, an asset and a corresponding liability of $232,367, representing the estimated present value of future payments under the licensing agreements for this issued patent. Through December 31, 2019, a total of 3 patents associated with the agreements were issued. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the corresponding long term liability for the estimated present value of future payments under the licensing agreement was $595,802 and $428,163, respectively. Competition We will compete against well established incumbent power semiconductor device suppliers, including companies that already operate at a large scale in the single sided (uni directional) power switch market with IGBTs and MOSFETs. We expect that these power semiconductor device providers will base their products on current technologies serving the uni directional power switch market, although we continue to monitor the competitive landscape for offerings or potential offerings based on new technologies. To date, we are not aware of any offerings or potential offerings based on a true high efficiency bi directional design other than our potential products based on our B TRAN technology. Government Approval and Regulation Government approval is not required for us to license our B TRAN technology. However, government support for certain of our potential target markets including electric and hybrid vehicles, renewable energy, grid storage, electric vehicle charging infrastructure and improved grid resiliency, may impact the size and growth rate of these potential target markets. Employees As of February 28, 2020, we had 5 employees, all of whom are full time employees. N1 of these employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we believe our relationship with our employees is good. Available Information Our Internet address is www.idealpower.com and our investor relations website is located at ir.idealpower.com. We make available free of charge on our investor relations website under the heading SEC Filings our Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports and our Proxy Statement as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with (or furnished to) the SEC. These reports are also available free of charge via EDGAR through the SEC website (www.sec.gov) as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with (or furnished to) the SEC. We also make available on our website, our corporate governance documents, including our code of conduct and ethics. Information contained on our website (or any other website referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10 K) is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10 K. ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks that may materially harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. In evaluating an investment in shares of our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information included in this report. 8 The risks described below are not the only risks we face. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occurs, or if additional risks and uncertainties later materialize, that are not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, then our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our shares. The risks discussed below include forward looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed herein. Risks Related to the Company We lack an established operating history on which to evaluate our business and determine if we will be able to execute our business plan. We have also incurred losses in prior periods, expect to incur losses in the future, currently generate no revenue and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We were formed in Texas on May 17, 2007 and converted to a Delaware corporation on July 15, 2013 We have a limited operating history that makes it difficult to evaluate our business. In 2019, we discontinued and subsequently sold our power conversion systems division which has historically accounted for all of our sales. Our focus is now exclusively on the development and commercialization of our B TRAN technology. We cannot say with certainty when we will commercialize our B TRAN technology, if ever, and thus do not expect to generate any revenue in the near future. Since inception, we have sustained approximately $67.3 million in net losses and we had net losses for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 of approximately $39 million and $7.9 million, respectively. We expect to incur losses and negative cash flows from operating activities at least until such time as we have commercialized our B TRAN technology and developed a substantial and stable revenue base. We cannot assure you that we can develop a stable revenue base or achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have been funding operations primarily through the sale of common stock and warrants. We currently generate no revenue and, in order to fund our operations until we are profitable, will need to raise additional funds and such funds may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to raise funds on acceptable terms if and as needed, we may not be able to execute our business plan and generate sustainable revenue. This may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event we are not able to continue operations, investors will likely suffer a complete loss of their investments in our securities. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain further financing. Our audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2019 were prepared under the assumption that we would continue our operations as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm for the year ended December 31, 2019 included a going concern explanatory paragraph in its report on our financial statements as of, and for the year ended, December 31, 2019 regarding substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining third party financing. If external financing sources are not available or are inadequate to fund operations, or the technology under development is not capable of generating sustainable revenues in the future, we will be required to reduce operating costs, which could jeopardize future strategic initiatives and business plans. Furthermore, uncertainty concerning our ability to continue as a going concern may hinder our ability to obtain future financing. Continued operations and our ability to continue as a going concern are dependent on our ability to obtain additional funding in the near future and thereafter, and there are no assurances that such funding will be available to us at all or will be available in sufficient amounts or on reasonable terms. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Based on our current operating plan, existing working capital at December 31, 2019 is not sufficient to meet the cash requirements to fund planned operations through the period that is 1 year after the date our 2019 financial statements are issued unless we are able to raise additional capital to fund operations. Without additional funds from private and or public offerings of debt or equity securities, sales of assets, sales of our licenses of intellectual property or technologies, or other transactions, we will exhaust our resources and will be unable to continue operations. If we cannot continue as a viable entity, our stockholders would likely lose most or all of their investment in us. Product development is an inherently uncertain process, and we may encounter unanticipated development challenges and may not be able to meet our product design and commercialization milest1s. Prototype and other pre commercial development and testing may be subject to unanticipated and significant delays, expenses and technical or other problems. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully achieve our milest1s within our planned timeframe or ever. We have developed initial prototypes of B TRAN devices and testing of these devices is underway. We cannot predict whether prototypes of the B TRAN will achieve results consistent with our expectations, third party simulations or the expectations of our potential customers and or licensees. A prototype could cost significantly more than expected or the prototype design and construction process could uncover problems that are not consistent with our expectations. Prototypes of B TRAN devices are a material part of our business plan, and if they are not proven to be successful, our business and prospects would be harmed. In addition, for both testing and commercialization purposes, the B TRAN will need to be packaged and paired with an efficient double sided driver to form an intelligent module. The driver development is subject to similar risks as the B TRAN prototype development including being subject to unanticipated and significant delays, expenses and technical or other problems. 9 More generally, the future commercialization of products using our technology and designs may also be adversely affected by many factors not within our control, including the willingness of market participants to try new products incorporating our technology and the perceptions of these market participants of the safety, reliability, functionality and cost effectiveness of these products; the emergence of newer, possibly more effective technologies; the future cost and availability of the raw materials and comp1nts needed to manufacture and use products incorporating our technology; and the adoption of new regulatory or industry standards that may adversely affect the use or cost of products incorporating our technology. Accordingly, we cannot predict that products incorporating our technology will be accepted on a scale sufficient to support development of mass markets for them. Our semiconductor fabrication partners may be unable to successfully and cost effectively develop and implement new process steps necessary for bi directional semiconductor device development at scale. While the manufacturing of B TRAN devices uses conventional equipment and process steps, there is heightened risk in the fabrication process due to the handling and processing of both sides of the wafer and achieving the required front to back alignment of the features. 2 sided wafer processing and handling is necessary as the B TRAN , unlike conventional power semiconductor devices, is a 2 sided bi directional device. In addition, the cost to manufacture a B TRAN will be impacted by the number of process steps, the processing time and the size of the wafer. Current B TRAN prototypes under development utilize smaller 4 inch and 5 inch diameter wafers resulting in fewer die per wafer. As a result, the cost per die is higher than if larger diameter wafers were utilized. For example, if an 8 inch wafer was used it would have four times the area and thus could produce four times as many die as a 4 inch wafer, or 2 and 1 half times the areas and thus could produce 2 and 1 half times as many die as a 5 inch wafer, resulting in a lower cost per die. If our semiconductor fabricator partners are unable to successfully and cost effectively develop and implement new process steps necessary for bi directional semiconductor device development at the prototype stage or at scale, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. There are a limited number of semiconductor fabrication development facilities in the United States and abroad. There are also a limited number of well capitalized semiconductor fabricators working with the small diameter wafers necessary for our current development. Our inability to engage such partners in a cost effective manner or the loss of any fabrication development partner once engaged may materially delay our development efforts and may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We, or our licensees, must achieve design wins to obtain customers, although design wins achieved may not necessarily result in substantial sales or licensing revenue to us. We anticipate that our future designs will typically be integrated into systems by our potential customers. This may result in the need to customize our designs for certain applications or customers. We will need to work with semiconductor partners and or manufacturers early in their design cycles to ensure that our designs will meet the requirements of their systems. Manufacturers typically choose 1 or 2 vendors to provide the comp1nts for use in their systems. Selection as 1 of these vendors is called a design win. It is critical that we, or our licensees, achieve these design wins in order to obtain customers and generate sales and or licensing revenue. We believe that equipment manufacturers often select their suppliers based on factors including long term relationships and end user demand. Accordingly, we may have difficulty achieving design wins from equipment manufacturers as our products will be new entrants into the market. Our efforts to achieve design wins, or assist our licensees in achieving design wins, may be time consuming and expensive and may not be successful. If we or our licensees are not successful in achieving design wins, or if we or our licensees do achieve design wins but the customers systems that utilize our designs are not successful, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. 10 Even if we, or our licensees, achieve design wins, the timing of generation of sales and or licensing revenue will be dependent on the customer product design cycle. There may be significant time between when we, or our licensees, achieve design wins and when we generate initial sales and or licensing revenue from these design wins. Significant delays in our customers product design cycles, or long product design cycles by these customers, could materially and adversely effect our business, financial condition and result of operations. Once a manufacturer chooses a comp1nt for use in a particular system, it is likely to retain that comp1nt for the life of that system. In addition, the sales cycle into certain potential target markets such as the automotive market are typically very long. Our future growth could experience material and prolonged adverse effects if we fail to achieve design wins or if the design wins do not result in substantial revenue for us. Our corporate realignment and strategic shift may not be successful. On April 16, 2018, we realigned our 2 operating divisions Power Conversion Systems, to continue the commercialization of our PPSA technology, and B TRAN, to develop our B TRAN solid state switch technology. On January 2, 2019, our Board of Directors approved a strategic shift to focus on the commercialization of our B TRAN technology and a plan to suspend further power converter system, or PPSA , development and sales while we locate a buyer for our power conversion systems division and PPSA technology. On September 19, 2019, we closed on an asset sale of our power conversion systems business and PPSA technology. We are now solely focused on the development and commercialization of our B TRAN technology. The success of this strategic shift will depend on our ability to successfully fabricate engineering samples for engineering evaluation and evaluation by our potential customers and partners for our B TRAN technology, retain senior management or other highly qualified personnel, obtain sufficient resources, including additional capital, and successfully commercialize our B TRAN technology. Accordingly, there are no assurances our change in strategic focus will be successful, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We previously received grant funds from the United States for the development of a bi directional switch. In certain instances, the United States may obtain title to inventions related to this effort. If we were to lose title to those inventions, we may have to pay to license them from the United States in order to manufacture the inventions. If we were unable to license those inventions from the United States, it could slow down our product development. In conjunction with the Advanced Research Projects Agency Energy, or ARPA E, grant we received from the Department of Energy, we granted to the United States a non exclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid up license to practice or have practiced for or on behalf of the United States inventions related to a bi directional switch and made within the scope of the grant. If we failed to disclose to the Department of Energy an invention made with grant funds that we disclosed to patent counsel or for publication, or if we elect not to retain title to the invention, the United States may request that title to the subject invention be transferred to it. We also granted march in rights to the United States in connection with any bi directional switch inventions in which we choose not to retain title, if those inventions were made under the ARPA E grant. Pursuant to the march in rights, the United States has the right to require us, any person to whom we have assigned our rights, or any exclusive licensee to grant a non exclusive, partially exclusive, or exclusive license in any field of use to a responsible applicant upon terms that are reasonable. If the license is not granted as requested, the United States has the right to grant the license if it determines that we have not achieved practical application of the invention in the field of use, the action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, the action is necessary to meet requirements for public use specified by Federal regulations and such requirements have not been satisfied, or the action is necessary because an agreement to manufacture the invention in the United States has not been obtained or waived or because any such agreement has been breached. If we lost title to the United States as a result of any of these events, we would have to pay to license the inventions, if needed, from the United States to manufacture the applicable bi directional switch. If we were unable to license those inventions from the United States, it could slow down our product development. As we continue to grow and to develop our intellectual property, we could attract threats from patent m1tization firms or competitors alleging infringement or competitors could infringe upon our intellectual property. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. As we continue to grow and to develop our intellectual property, we could attract threats from patent m1tization firms or competitors alleging infringement of intellectual property rights. In that event, we may incur significant costs to defend against such a claim even if the claim proves to have no merit. In addition, some of our future competitors will be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. If we do not prevail in this type of litigation, we may be required to pay m1tary damages; stop commercial activities relating to our product; obtain 1 or more licenses in order to secure the rights to continue manufacturing or marketing certain products; or attempt to compete in the market with substantially similar products. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue some or all of our operations. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition could be adversely affected. 11 Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology for which we seek protection under patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws. Such protection is also maintained in part using proprietary information and inventions agreements and non disclosure agreements. The agreements we use in an effort to protect our intellectual property, confidential information, and other unpatented proprietary information may be ineffective or insufficient to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of such trade secrets and information. A party to 1 of these agreements may breach the agreement and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. As a result, our trade secrets, confidential information, and other unpatented proprietary rights and information may become known to others, including our competitors. Using third party manufacturers may increase the risk of misappropriation of our trade secrets, confidential information and other unpatented proprietary information. Protection of our technology is important to us so that we may offer our future customers proprietary products unavailable from our competitors, and so that we may prevent our competitors from using technology that we have developed or exclusively licensed. If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. We may license our technology in the future; however the terms of any such agreements may not prove to be advantageous to us. If the license agreements we may enter into do not prove to be advantageous to us, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We intend to employ a licensing strategy for the production and potentially sales of our future B TRAN products. However, we may not be able to secure license agreements with semiconductor fabrication partners or other strategic partners at all or on terms that are advantageous to us. Furthermore, the timing and volume of revenue earned from license agreements will be outside of our control. If the license agreements we enter into in the future do not prove to be advantageous to us, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Any future revenue may rely on the marketing and sales efforts of third parties whom we do not control. The marketing and sale of our products to end user customers may be conducted by us, future licensees of our technology or a combination thereof. Consequently, commercial success of our products may depend, to a great extent, on the efforts of others. We may not be able to identify, maintain or establish appropriate relationships in the future. We can give no assurance that any such third parties will focus adequate resources on selling our products or will be successful in selling them. In addition, these third parties may require customization of our designs or other concessions that could reduce the potential profitability of these relationships. Failure to develop favorable licensing relationships in our target markets may adversely affect our commercialization schedule and, to the extent we enter into such relationships, the failure of our licensees to focus adequate resources on selling our products or be successful in selling them or to meet their m1tary obligations to us may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A material part of our success depends on our ability to manage third party resources. Our failure to properly select, manage and retain qualified third party resources could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and relations with our partners and future customers. Our development efforts are highly dependent on third party resources for semiconductor expertise and manufacturing. These third party resources include experts in power semiconductor switches, semiconductor fabrication suppliers and other resources within the power switch ecosystem. The loss of 1 or more of our third party consultants could have a material adverse effect on the timing of our development efforts which could, in turn, result in our business and results of operations being adversely affected. We also rely on our semiconductor fabrication partners to develop prototype devices. There can be no assurance that these manufacturing partners will provide devices in a timely and cost efficient manner, provide quality devices or otherwise meet our needs and expectations. Our ability to manage such relationships and timely replace such partners, if necessary, is critical to our success. Our failure to timely replace consultants, fabrication partners and other suppliers within the power switch ecosystem, should that become necessary, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and relations with our partners and future customers. Our business, including our supply chain, liquidity, financial condition and financial results may be materially adversely disrupted and impacted due to the recent novel coronavirus (COVID 19) outbreak. In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID 19) began to impact the population of Wuhan, China. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, the COVID 19 outbreak has already begun to cause a disruption to our business and potential financial impacts associated with the COVID 19 outbreak include, but are not limited to, delays in critical development and commercialization activities and potential incremental costs associated with mitigating the effects of the outbreak, including increased freight and logistics costs and other expenses. The COVID 19 outbreak is ongoing, and its dynamic nature, including uncertainties relating to the ultimate spread of the virus, the severity of the disease, the duration of the outbreak and actions that may be taken by governmental authorities to contain the outbreak or to treat its impact, makes it difficult to forecast any effects on our results of operations for 2020. However, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, we do not expect our results of operations for 2020 to be significantly adversely affected. 12 Furthermore, we rely upon the facilities of our semiconductor fabricators in California and in China to support our business as well as vendors throughout the United States and abroad to supply silicon wafers and other materials and processing and engineering capabilities and expertise. Accordingly, a significant portion of our supply chain is located in California, China and other locations domestically and abroad where the COVID 19 impacts have been and or are expected to be significant. The outbreak has resulted in significant governmental measures being implemented to control the spread of the virus, including, among others, restrictions on manufacturing and the movement of employees in many states or regions of these countries. As a result of COVID 19 and the measures designed to contain the spread of the virus, our suppliers may not have the materials, capacity, or capability to supply us the comp1nts needed to continue our development efforts according to our schedule. Any reduction in manufacturing or supply capacity may reduce or even halt the supply of necessary comp1nts needed for us to continue these activities. Further, there may be logistics issues, including our ability and our supply chain ability to quickly resume operations, if necessary, and transportation demands that may cause further delays. If our suppliers operations are curtailed, we may need to seek alternate sources of supply, which may be more expensive. Alternate sources may not be available or may result in delays in shipments to us from our supply chain, each of which would affect our results of operations. While the disruptions and restrictions on the ability to travel, quarantines, and temporary closures of the facilities of our suppliers, as well as general limitations on movement in the region are expected to be temporary, the duration of the production and supply chain disruption, and related financial impact, cannot be estimated at this time. Should the production and distribution closures continue for an extended period of time, the impact on our supply chain in China and globally could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. See Our semiconductor fabrication partners may be unable to successfully and cost effectively develop and implement new process steps necessary for bi directional semiconductor device development at scale. The COVID 19 outbreak may also delay the commercialization of our B TRAN technology, which would materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operating results could also continue to be adversely affected to the extent that the COVID 19 outbreak harms the United States economy in general. In addition, the continued spread of COVID 19 globally could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the global economy and financial markets, resulting in an economic downturn, and could also adversely impact our operations, including among others, our development activities, supply chain and commercialization plan and could have an adverse impact on our business and our financial results. See also The macro economic environment in the United States and abroad has adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our ability to raise capital, which may potentially impact our ability to continue our operations. We will need additional financing to execute our business plan and fund operations, which additional financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As our technology is in the development stage and has not yet been commercialized, we will be required to obtain additional financing to continue our operations and execute our business plan. We will need to raise additional capital from strategic partnerships, government grants and or from investors within the next twelve months from the date of issuance of this report to fund our future operations. We may not be able to obtain such financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain such financing when needed, our business could fail. We will continue to incur significant costs as we develop and commercialize our B TRAN technology. Although we are executing our business plan to commercialize and license this technology, continuing losses may impair our ability to fully meet our business objective or threaten our ability to continue as a going concern in future years. Any such inability to continue as a going concern may result in our stockholders losing their entire investment. There is no guarantee that we will begin generating revenue or secure additional financing on acceptable terms, if and when needed, in the future. We have been funding operations primarily through the sale of common stock and warrants. We currently generate no revenue and, in order to fund our operations until we are profitable, will need to raise additional funds and such funds may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to raise funds on acceptable terms if and as needed, we may not be able to execute our business plan and generate sustainable revenue. This may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event we are not able to continue operations, investors will likely suffer a complete loss of their investments in our securities. A failure to obtain government grants could have a material adverse effect on our development efforts and our ability to fund operations and execute on our business plan. We expect to fund a portion of our development efforts with funds received under government grants. However, we may not be awarded any such grants, any such grant awards may be insufficient to fund a meaningful portion of our development spending and or the timing of the receipt of any such award or awards may not coincide with the planned timing of our development efforts. Grants are subject to long procurement cycles, typically 6 to 12 months, and there may not be open grant solicitations for topics relevant to our B TRAN technology. Grant topics are typically identified 1 to 2 years prior to the opening of the grant solicitation and the windows to submit proposals are discrete time periods. Further, the award of grants is a subjective process and government agencies often do not provide detailed feedback on why a grant was not received. 13 Other factors that could negatively impact our ability to obtain government grants is that our technology is still in a relatively early stage of development. If grant agencies determine that our technological readiness is not sufficiently advanced for a funded demonstration incorporating B TRAN or potential partners determine that our technological readiness is not sufficient to partner with us on grant proposals, we may be unable to obtain government grants. Overall, there is a high degree of uncertainty in obtaining grants, particularly for technologies that have not been demonstrated with device samples, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to obtain government grants to offset a significant, or any, portion of our development spending. If we do not obtain grants or our efforts to obtain grants take longer than expected to be successful, we will need to rely on other means to fund our development. The macro economic environment in the United States and abroad has adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our ability to raise capital, which may potentially impact our ability to continue our operations. We have and, prior to commercialization at scale, will continue to rely on raising funds from investors and or other sources to support our research and development activities and our operations. Macro economic conditions in the United States and abroad may result in a tightening of the credit markets and or less capital available for small public companies, which may make it more difficult to raise capital. Specifically, the outbreak of COVID 19 has caused significant disruptions to the global financial markets, which could increase the cost of capital and adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital, which could negatively affect our liquidity in the future. If we are unable to raise funds as and when we need them, we may be forced to curtail our operations or even cease operating altogether. Therefore, unfavorable macroeconomic conditions , particularly in the United States, including as a result of COVID 19 and any resulting recession or slowed economic growth, could have an outsized negative impact on us. We are highly dependent on the services of key members of our management and technical teams. Our inability to retain these individuals could impede our business plan and growth strategies, which could have a negative impact on our business and the value of your investment. Our ability to implement our business plan depends, to a critical extent, on the continued efforts and services of key members of our management and technical teams. If we unexpectedly lose the services of any of these persons during this important time in our development, the loss may result in a delay in the implementation of our business plan and plan of operations. We can give no assurance that we could find satisfactory replacements for these individuals on terms that would not be unduly expensive or burdensome to us. We do not currently carry a key man life insurance policy that would assist us in recouping our costs in the event of the death or disability of any of these persons. In addition, we will need additional semiconductor expertise as we draw closer to the commercialization of our technology. We can give no assurance that we will be able to identify and secure the necessary expertise at the appropriate time or at all. Our operating results for any quarterly reporting period may fluctuate significantly depending on the timing and pace of our development spending and costs to commercialize our technology. Our research and development costs may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on the current phase of development and commercialization of our technology and the timing of pre commercial semiconductor fabrication, commercial production and negotiations with potential strategic partners. We also may intentionally accelerate our development costs or may be faced with unexpected delays or challenges with development that could significantly impact our operating results. Significant adverse fluctuations in our research and development spending and other operating costs from period to period could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. New technologies in the power semiconductor switch industry may supplant our technology in this market, which would harm our business and operations, and we may not be able to compete effectively in this industry and with any such new technologies. The power semiconductor switch industry is subject to significant technological change. Our future success will depend on the cutting edge relevance of our technology, and thereafter on our ability to appropriately respond to changing technologies and changes in function of products and quality. If new technologies supplant our technology, our business would be adversely affected and we will have to revise our plan of operation. We or our licensees could be competing against large power semiconductor device suppliers with substantially greater resources than us, financial and otherwise. These competitors may also have more comprehensive product lines, broader market presence, longer standing relationships with customers, longer operating histories, greater manufacturing and or product development capabilities, stronger brand recognition, and greater marketing resources than we and or our licensees have. If any of these competitors develop products to compete with our technology, we may not be able to commercialize our technology and our technology may not result in sufficient, or any, product or licensing revenue. 14 We may not be able to use some or all of our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future income. We have net operating loss carryforwards due to prior period losses generated before January 1, 2020 which if not utilized will begin to expire in 2031 for net operating loss carryforwards prior to 2018 and which do not expire for net operating loss carryforwards for 2018 and thereafter. If we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards, pre 2018 carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. In addition, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an ownership change (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a 3 year period) is subject to limitation on its ability to utilize its pre change net operating loss and credit carry forwards, or net operating losses, to offset future taxable income. We may have experienced 1 or more ownership changes under these Sections in connection with our initial public offering and 1 or more subsequent financings. However, we do not anticipate performing a complete analysis of the limitation on the annual use of the net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards until such time we project we will be able to utilize these tax attributes. In addition, future changes in our stock ownership, which may be outside of our control, may trigger an ownership change, as may future equity offerings or acquisitions that have equity as a comp1nt of the purchase price. If an ownership change has occurred or does occur in the future, our ability to utilize our net operating losses to offset income if we attain profitability may be limited. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock The public market for our common stock may be volatile. This may affect the ability of our investors to sell their shares as well as the price at which they sell their shares. The market price for our shares has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. We cannot predict whether the price of our common stock will rise or fall. Our stock price may be significantly affected by factors such as, among others variations in the volume of trading activity; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our liquidity, financial condition and operating results; quarterly and yearly operating results compared to market expectations; quarterly and yearly operating results of other companies in our industry compared to market expectations; general trends in markets we expect to serve; competition from existing products or new products that may emerge; future announcements concerning our business or our competitors businesses; additions or departures of key management or other technical personnel; the public reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ); issuances or sales, or expected issuances or sales of our capital stock; disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; litigation involving us, our general industry or both; and changes in state or federal regulations affecting us and our industry. Furthermore, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. Such broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, price volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of our common stock is low. As a result, you may suffer a loss on your investment. We have the right to issue, and have in the past issued, shares of preferred stock. If we were to issue additional preferred stock, it may have rights, preferences and privileges that may adversely affect the common stock. We are authorized to issue 10,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock, with such rights, preferences and privileges as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock in 1 or more series, and to fix for any series the dividend rights, dissolution or liquidation preferences, redemption prices, conversion rights, voting rights, and other rights, preferences and privileges for the preferred stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, depending on the rights, preferences and privileges attributable to the preferred stock, could reduce the voting rights and powers of the common stock and the portion of our assets allocated for distribution to common stockholders in a liquidation event, and could also result in dilution in the book value per share of the common stock we are offering. The preferred stock could also be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method for raising additional capital or discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, to the detriment of the investors in the common stock offered hereby. We cannot assure you that we will not, under certain circumstances, issue shares of our preferred stock. At December 31, 2019, we had no shares of preferred stock outstanding. 15 We have not paid dividends in the past and have no immediate plans to pay dividends. We plan to reinvest all of our earnings, to the extent we have earnings, in order to market our products and to cover operating costs and to otherwise become and remain competitive. We do not plan to pay any cash dividends with respect to our securities in the foreseeable future. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur, will provide a return to stockholders. We cannot assure you that we would, at any time, generate sufficient surplus cash that would be available for distribution to the holders of our common stock as a dividend. Therefore, you should not expect to receive cash dividends on our common stock. We incur significant costs as a result of being a public company that reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission and our management is required to devote substantial time to meet compliance obligations. As a public company reporting to the SEC, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. We are subject to reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC that impose significant requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel are required to devote a substantial amount of time to these and other new compliance initiatives. In addition, we believe these rules and regulations make it more costly for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Specifically, we reduced our policy limits in both of our last 2 annual renewals to, in part, avoid incurring substantially higher director and officer liability insurance costs. We may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage in the future. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified people to serve on our board of directors, on our board committees or as executive officers. If we are unable to maintain compliance with the listing requirements of The Nasdaq Stock Market, our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market ( Nasdaq ), which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and could make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is listed on Nasdaq, and we are therefore subject to its continued listing requirements, including requirements with respect to the market value of publicly held shares, market value of listed shares, minimum bid price per share, and minimum stockholder's equity, among others, and requirements relating to board and committee independence. If we fail to satisfy 1 or more of the requirements, we may be delisted from the Nasdaq. On September 7, 2018, we received a notice letter from the Listing Qualifications staff of Nasdaq indicating that, based upon the closing bid price of our common stock for the last 30 consecutive business days, we no longer met the requirement to maintain a minimum bid price of $1 per share, as set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). On August 15, 2019, in order to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement, we effected a reverse stock split of the outstanding shares of its common stock by a ratio of 1 for ten and our common stock began trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market on a split adjusted basis on August 20, 2019. On September 4, 2019, we received a notice letter from Nasdaq that we had regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement and the matter was closed. On August 21, 2019, we were notified by the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department that we were not in compliance with the minimum stockholders equity requirement under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(b)(1) for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market because our stockholders equity was below the required minimum of $25 million, and, as of the date of the notification, we did not meet the alternatives of market value of listed securities or net income from continuing operations. On November 13, 2019, we closed on the Offering and filed a related Form 8 K with the SEC for the Offering. On November 25, 2019, we received written confirmation from Nasdaq notifying us that we had regained compliance with the minimum stockholders equity requirement under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(b)(1) based on our Form 8 K filed with the SEC on November 13, 2019. Nasdaq indicated it would continue to monitor our compliance with the minimum stockholders equity requirement under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(b)(1) in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Although we were in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(b)(1) at December 31, 2019 as we reported stockholders equity of $39 million, if we do not evidence compliance in the future, we may be subject to delisting. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with the continued listing requirements for Nasdaq. If we fail to maintain compliance with any such continued listing requirement, there can also be no assurance that we will be able to regain compliance with any such continued listing requirement in the future or that our common stock will not be delisted from Nasdaq Stock Market in the future. 16 Delisting from Nasdaq may adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing through the public or private sale of equity securities, may significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and may negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. Delisting also could have other negative results, including the potential loss of employee confidence, the loss of institutional investors or interest in business development opportunities. If we are delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market and we are not able to list our common stock on another exchange, our common stock could be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the "pink sheets." As a result, we could face significant adverse consequences including, among others a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; a determination that our common stock is a "penny stock" which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities; a limited amount of news and little or no analyst coverage for us; we would no longer qualify for exemptions from state securities registration requirements, which may require us to comply with applicable state securities laws; and a decreased ability to issue additional securities (including pursuant to short form registration statements on Form S 3) or obtain additional financing in the future. Shares eligible for future sale, including warrants and options exercisable into shares of our common stock, may cause dilution to our existing stockholders and may adversely affect the market for our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. At December 31, 2019, we had 2,099,951 shares of common stock outstanding and 868,443 pre funded warrants with an exercise price of $0.001 that are included in our computation of basic earnings per share. Shares beneficially owned by our affiliates, if any, and employees are subject to volume and other restrictions under Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act, various vesting agreements, our insider trading policy and or any applicable 10b5 1 trading plan. Shares that are not beneficially owned by our affiliates and employees generally can be freely sold in the public market, subject in some cases to restrictions under Rule 144. At December 31, 2019, we had 2,633,043 potentially dilutive shares outstanding, exclusive of 868,443 pre funded warrants that are considered outstanding common shares and included in our computation of basic earnings per share, and we may grant additional options, stock based awards and or warrants in the future. If our stock price rises, the holders of vested options, stock based awards or warrants may exercise their options, stock based awards and or warrants and sell a large number of shares. Any sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies. We may seek additional capital through a combination of public and private equity offerings, debt financings, strategic partnerships and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale or issuance of equity, warrants or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders will be diluted, and the terms of such securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a stockholder. If we raise capital through debt financing, it may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take certain actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through strategic partnerships or licensing agreements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our development and commercialization efforts. Our ability to raise capital is limited by the Securities Act and SEC rules and regulations. Under current SEC rules and regulations, because the aggregate market value of our common stock held by non affiliates, or public float, was less than $75 million (calculated as set forth in Form S 3 and SEC rules and regulations) at the time of filing of this Report on Form 10 K, the amount we can raise through primary public offerings of our securities in any twelve month period using a registration statement on Form S 3 will be limited to 1 third of our public float. Alternative means of raising capital through sales of our securities, including through the use of a long form registration statement on a Form S 1 or in private placements of equity or debt securities, may be more costly and time consuming and more difficult to market to potential investors, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise capital, our liquidity position and strategy. 17 Our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that stockholders consider favorable. Our Certificate of Incorporation, or Certificate, and bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware law may delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control or change in our management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares, or transactions that our stockholders might otherwise deem to be in their best interests. The provisions in our Certificate and bylaws authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; limit who may call stockholder meetings; do not permit stockholders to act by written consent; do not provide for cumulative voting rights; and provide that all vacancies may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may limit our ability to engage in any business combination with a person who beneficially owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock unless certain conditions are satisfied. This restriction lasts for a period of 3 years following the share acquisition. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. See Anti Takeover Effects of Certain Provisions of Delaware Law and Our Charter Documents for additional information. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or do not continue to publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. Prior to 2018, a number of securities analysts published reports on us on a regular basis. In 2018, the number of securities analysts publishing reports on us declined and, in general, the ratings of these analysts on our common stock became less favorable. In 2019, 1 securities analyst published a report whereby they discontinued coverage on us and no other securities analysts published reports on us. If any of the analysts who cover us now or in the future issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If 1 or more analysts do not initiate coverage on us or 1 or more analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS N1 ITEM 2 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES
