CIK: 1521168
Company Name: SANDRIDGE PERMIAN TRUST
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2020-03-13
Accession Number: 0001104659-20-033134


Item 1 Business General SandRidge Permian Trust is a statutory trust formed under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act pursuant to a trust agreement, as amended and restated, by and among SandRidge, as Trustor, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (the Trustee ), and The Corporation Trust Company, as Delaware Trustee (the Delaware Trustee ) (such amended and restated trust agreement, as amended to date, the Trust Agreement ) in May 2011 The Trust affairs are administered by the Trustee, which maintains its offices at 601 Travis Street, 16 th Floor, Houston, Texas 77002 The Trust does not have any employees. Copies of reports filed by the Trust under the Exchange Act are available to Trust unitholders and the public promptly after such materials are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) by accessing the EDGAR system maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov edgar . Certain information concerning the Trust and Trust units as well as a link to the Trust filings with the SEC may be obtained at the following website location www.businesswire.com cnn per.htm . The Trust will also provide electronic or paper copies of its filings free of charge upon request to the Trustee. Formation and Structure. The Trust was formed to own Royalty Interests in specified oil and natural gas properties located in Andrews County, Texas (the Underlying Properties ) conveyed by SandRidge to the Trust pursuant to the terms set forth in conveyancing documents effective April 1, 2011 (the Conveyances ) concurrent with the initial public offering and sale of 34,500,000 of the Trust common units ( Common Units ) in August 2011 (the Offering ). As consideration for conveyance of the Royalty Interests, the Trust remitted the net proceeds of the offering, along with 4,875,000 Common Units and 13,125,000 unregistered subordinated units of the Trust ( Subordinated Units ), to certain wholly owned subsidiaries of SandRidge. The Common Units and the Subordinated Units are collectively referenced in this Form 10 K as the Trust units . The Royalty Interests entitle the Trust to receive (a) 80% of the proceeds (after deducting post production costs and any applicable taxes) from the sale of oil, natural gas and NGL production attributable to the net revenue interest of SandRidge in 517 oil and natural gas wells drilled and completed as of April 1, 2011 on the Underlying Properties, including 21 wells awaiting Completion at that time (the Initial Wells ), and (b) 70% of the proceeds (after deducting post production costs and any applicable taxes) from the sale of oil, natural gas and NGL production attributable to the net revenue interest in 888 development wells drilled and completed by an affiliate of SandRidge pursuant to the terms of a development agreement between the Trust and SandRidge (the Trust Development Wells ) within an area of mutual interest ( AMI ) designated in the development agreement. The development agreement obligated SandRidge to drill and complete the Trust Development Wells by March 31, 2016. SandRidge fulfilled this obligation in November 2014, and, as a result, the development agreement terminated and the Subordinated Units issued to SandRidge were converted to Common Units in January 2016 pursuant to the terms of the Trust Agreement. On November 1, 2018, SandRidge sold all of its interests in the Underlying Properties and all Common Units which it owned to Avalon Energy, LLC, a Texas limited liability company. In connection with this transaction (the Sale Transaction ), Avalon Exploration and Production LLC, an affiliate of Avalon Energy, LLC, assumed all of SandRidge obligations under the Trust Agreement and the administrative services agreement between SandRidge and the Trust (as further described below). Avalon Energy, LLC and Avalon Exploration and Production LLC are collectively referred to as Avalon in this report. As a part of the Sale Transaction, SandRidge and Avalon entered into a transition services agreement whereby SandRidge provided certain transition services to Avalon, including trust administration services, through April 30, 2019. The transition services agreement has expired. At December 31, 2019, Avalon owned 13,125,000 Common Units, or 25% of all issued and outstanding Trust units. As was the case with SandRidge prior to the Sale Transaction, pursuant to the terms of the Conveyances, Avalon is obligated to act in good faith and as a reasonably prudent operator under the same or similar circumstances as it would if it were acting with respect to its own properties, disregarding the existence of the Royalty Interests as burdens affecting such properties (the Reasonably Prudent Operator Standard ). The Conveyances generally permit Avalon to sell all or any part of its interest in the Underlying Properties, if the Underlying Properties are sold subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests. The Trust is passive in nature and neither the Trust nor the Trustee has any control over, or responsibility for, any operating or capital costs related to the Underlying Properties. The business and affairs of the Trust are administered by the Trustee. However, the Trustee has no authority over or responsibility for, and no involvement with, any aspect of the oil and natural gas operations or other activities with respect to the Underlying Properties. The Trust Agreement generally limits the Trust business activities to owning the Royalty Interests and certain activities reasonably related thereto, including activities required or permitted by the terms of the Conveyances related to the Royalty Interests. 1 The Trust will dissolve and begin to liquidate on March 31, 2031 (the Termination Date ), unless so1r dissolved pursuant to the terms of the Trust Agreement as described below and will soon thereafter wind up its affairs and terminate. At the Termination Date, 50% of the Royalty Interests will revert automatically to Avalon. The remaining 50% of the Royalty Interests will be sold at that time, and the net proceeds of the sale, as well as any remaining Trust cash reserves, will be distributed to the unitholders on a pro rata basis, subject to Avalon's right of first refusal to purchase the Royalty Interests retained by the Trust at the Termination Date. The Trust may also dissolve should 1 of the following events occur prior to the Termination Date (a) the Trust sells all of the Royalty Interests; (b) cash available for distribution for any four consecutive quarters, on a cumulative basis, is less than $5.0 million; (c) the Trust unitholders approve an earlier dissolution of the Trust; or (d) the Trust is judicially dissolved pursuant to the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. In the case of any of the foregoing, the Trustee would then sell all of the Trust assets (subject to Avalon right of first refusal to purchase the Royalty Interests retained by the Trust as of the date of such event), either by private sale or public auction, and distribute the net proceeds of the sale to the Trust unitholders after payment, or reasonable provision for payment, of all Trust liabilities. The Trust is highly dependent on Avalon for multiple services, including (a) the operation of the Underlying Properties and wells located thereon; (b) the marketing and sale of hydrocarbon production from the wells; (c) the remittance of net proceeds from the sale of production from wells burdened by the Royalty Interests to the Trust; (d) administrative services such as accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping and informational services performed on behalf of the Trust; and (e) the preparation and filing of reports the Trust is or may be required to prepare and or file in accordance with applicable tax and securities laws, exchange listing rules and other requirements. The ability to operate the Underlying Properties depends on Avalon future financial condition and economic performance, access to capital, and other factors, many of which are out of Avalon control. If the reduced demand for crude oil in the global market resulting from the economic effects of the coronavirus pandemic and the recent reduction in the benchmark price of crude oil persist for the near term or longer, such factor are likely to have a negative impact on Avalon financial condition. This negative impact could affect Avalon ability to operate the wells and provide services to the Trust. Income Tax Considerations. The Trust is treated as a partnership for federal and applicable state income tax purposes, and Trust unitholders are treated as partners in that partnership for such purposes. For United States ( U.S. ) federal income tax purposes, a partnership is not a taxable entity and incurs no U.S. federal income tax liability. With respect to state taxation, a partnership typically is treated in the same manner as it is for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Each partner is required to take into account his or her share of Item of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit of the partnership in computing his or her federal income tax liability, regardless of whether cash distributions are made to him or her by the partnership. Distributions by a partnership to a partner generally are not taxable to the partner (but instead reduce tax basis but not below zero) unless the amount of cash distributed to such partner is in excess of the partner adjusted tax basis in his or her partnership interest. To date, the Trust has distributed an amount of cash to Trust unitholders in excess of their cash contributions made at the time of the initial public offering of Common Units. The Trust activities occur solely in Texas and, as a result, the Trust is deemed to have nexus under the Texas franchise tax laws. Therefore, the Trust is required to pay Texas franchise tax each year at a maximum effective rate (subject to changes in the statutory rate) of 0.1655% of all gross income. Agreements with Avalon In conjunction with the conveyance of the Royalty Interests to the Trust, the Trust entered into the following agreements with SandRidge and or 1 of its wholly owned subsidiaries, which agreements were subsequently assigned to Avalon in connection with the Sale Transaction Administrative Services Agreement. The Trust is a party to an administrative services agreement with Avalon, as assignee of SandRidge (the Administrative Services Agreement ), that obligates the Trust to pay Avalon an annual administrative services fee in the amount of $300,000, payable quarterly, for accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping and informational services to be performed by Avalon on behalf of the Trust. Avalon is also entitled to receive reimbursement for its out of pocket fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the provision of any of the services provided under this agreement. In connection with the Sale Transaction, Avalon assumed the responsibility to provide such services to the Trust under the terms of the Administrative Services Agreement effective November 1, 2018. The Administrative Services Agreement will terminate on the earliest to occur of (a) the date the Trust shall have dissolved and commenced winding up in accordance with the Trust Agreement; (b) the date that all of the Royalty Interests have been terminated or are no longer held by the Trust; (c) pertaining to administrative services being provided by Avalon, the date that either Avalon or the Trustee may designate by delivering written notice no less than 90 days prior to such date, provided that Avalon cannot terminate the agreement except in connection with the transfer of some or all of the Underlying Properties and the transferee thereof assuming responsibility to perform the services in place of Avalon; and (d) a date mutually agreed by Avalon and the Trustee. 2 Registration Rights Agreement . The Trust entered into a registration rights agreement for the benefit of SandRidge and certain of its affiliates and transferees, pursuant to which the Trust agreed to register the offering of unregistered Trust units, now held by Avalon, upon request. Upon the closing of the Sale Transaction, Avalon assumed the rights and obligations of SandRidge under the registration rights agreement. Specifically, the Trust agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to file a registration statement, including, if so requested, a shelf registration statement, with the SEC within 45 days of receipt of a notice requesting the filing of a registration statement from Avalon; to use its reasonable best efforts to cause the registration statement or shelf registration statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act as promptly as practicable after the filing thereof; and to continuously maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement under the Securities Act for 90 days (or continuously if a shelf registration statement is requested) after the effectiveness thereof or until the Trust units covered by the registration statement have been sold pursuant to such registration statement or until all registrable Trust units have been sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act if the transferee thereof does not receive restricted securities ; have been sold in a private transaction in which the transferor rights under the registration rights agreement are not assigned to the transferee of the Trust units; or become eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144 (or any similar rule then in effect under the Securities Act). The holders will have the right to require the Trust to file no more than five registration statements in aggregate, 1 of which has been filed to date on behalf of SandRidge. The Trust does not bear any expenses associated with such transactions. Trust Agreement The Trust Agreement provides that the Trust business activities are generally limited to owning the Royalty Interests and administrative activities related thereto as set forth in the Trust Agreement, including activities required or permitted by the terms of the Conveyances related to the Royalty Interests. The Trust is not permitted to acquire other oil and natural gas properties or royalty interests and is not able to issue any additional Trust units. The beneficial interest in the Trust is divided into 52,500,000 Trust units, which now consist solely of Common Units. Each Trust unit represents an equal undivided beneficial interest in the property of the Trust. Amendment of the Trust Agreement generally requires the vote of holders of (i) a majority of the Trust units (excluding Trust units owned by Avalon) and (ii) a majority of the Trust units (including Trust units owned by Avalon), in each case voting in person or by proxy at a meeting of such unitholders at which a quorum is present. At any time that Avalon owns less than 10% of the total Trust units outstanding, however, the standard for approval will be the vote of the holders of a majority of the Trust units, including Trust units owned by Avalon, voting in person or by proxy at a meeting of the unitholders at which a quorum is present. Abstentions and broker non votes will not be deemed to be a vote cast. However, no amendment may increase the power of the Trustee to engage in business or investment activities; alter the rights of the Trust unitholders as among themselves; or permit the Trustee to distribute the Royalty Interests in kind. Amendments to the Trust Agreement provisions addressing the following matters may not be made without Avalon consent dispositions of the Trust assets; indemnification of the Trustee; reimbursement of out of pocket expenses of Avalon when acting as the Trust agent; termination of the Trust; and amendments of the Trust Agreement. Certain amendments to the Trust Agreement do not require the vote of the Trust unitholders. See Permitted Amendments below. 3 The business and affairs of the Trust are managed by the Trustee. The Trustee has no ability to manage or influence the operations of the Underlying Pro perties. Avalon operates the Under lying Properties, but has no ability to manage or influence the management of the Trust, except through its limited voting rights as a holder of Trust units. Duties and Powers of the Trustee. The duties and powers of the Trustee are specified in the Trust Agreement and by the laws of the State of Delaware, except as modified by the Trust Agreement. The Trust Agreement provides that the Trustee does not have any duties or liabilities, including fiduciary duties, except as expressly set forth in the Trust Agreement, and the duties and liabilities of the Trustee as set forth in the Trust Agreement replace any other duties and liabilities, including fiduciary duties, to which the Trustee might otherwise be subject. The Trustee principal duties consist of collecting cash proceeds attributable to the Royalty Interests; paying expenses, charges and obligations of the Trust from the Trust assets; making cash distributions to the Trust unitholders in accordance with the Trust Agreement; causing to be prepared and distributed a Schedule K 1 for each Trust unitholder and preparing and filing tax returns on behalf of the Trust; and causing to be prepared and filed reports required to be filed under the Exchange Act and under the rules of any securities exchange or quotation system on which the Trust units are listed or admitted to trading. Avalon provides, and SandRidge provided prior to the Sale Transaction, administrative and other services to the Trust in fulfillment of certain of the foregoing duties, pursuant to the terms of the Administrative Services Agreement. SandRidge performed these services on behalf of, and in conjunction with, Avalon pursuant to the terms of the transition services agreement, which terminated on April 30, 2019. Except as set forth below, cash held by the Trustee as a reserve against future liabilities must be invested in interest bearing obligations of the United States government; m1y market funds that invest only in United States government securities; repurchase agreements secured by interest bearing obligations of the United States government; or bank certificates of deposit. Alternatively, cash held for distribution at the next distribution date may be held in a non interest bearing account. The Trust may not acquire any asset except the Royalty Interests and cash and temporary cash investments, and it may not engage in any investment activity except investing cash on hand. The Trust Agreement provides that the Trustee will not make business decisions affecting the assets of the Trust. However, the Trustee may prosecute or defend, and settle, claims of or against the Trust or its agents; retain professionals and other third parties to provide services to the Trust; charge for its services as Trustee; retain funds to pay for future expenses and deposit them with 1 or more banks or financial institutions (which may include the Trustee to the extent permitted by law); lend funds at commercial rates to the Trust to pay the Trust expenses; and seek reimbursement from the Trust for its out of pocket expenses. In carrying out its powers and performing its duties to Trust unitholders, the Trustee may act directly or in its discretion (at the expense of the Trust) through agents pursuant to agreements entered into with any of them, and the Trustee will be liable to the Trust unitholders only for its own willful misconduct, acts or omissions made in bad faith, gross negligence, or taxes, fees or other charges based on any fees, commissions or compensation received by it in connection with any of the transactions contemplated by the Trust Agreement. The Trustee will not be liable for any act or omission of its agents unless the Trustee acted with willful misconduct, bad faith or gross negligence in its selection and retention of such agents. The Trustee and its affiliates, as well as each of its agents (including Avalon when acting in its capacity as an agent), will be indemnified and held harmless by, and receive reimbursement from, the Trust against and from any liability or cost that it incurs individually in the administration of the Trust, except in cases of willful misconduct, bad faith or gross negligence. The Trustee has a lien on the assets of the Trust as security for this indemnification and its compensation earned as Trustee. Trust unitholders will not be liable to the Trustee for any indemnification. The Trustee ensures that all contractual liabilities of the Trust are limited to the assets of the Trust. The Trustee has not loaned and does not intend to lend funds to the Trust. 4 Merger or Consolidation of Trust. The Trust may merge or consolidate with or into, or convert into, 1 or more limited partnerships, general partnerships, corporations, business trusts, limited liability companies, or associations or unincorporated businesses if such transaction is agreed to by the Trustee and approved by the vote of the holders of (i) a majority of the Trust units (excluding Trust units owned by Avalon) and (ii) a majority of the Trust units (including Trust units owned by Avalon), in each case voting in person or by proxy at a meeting of such holders at which a quorum is present and such transaction is permitted under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act and any other applicable law. At any time that Avalon owns less than 10% of the total Trust units outstanding, however, the standard for approval will be the vote of the holders of a majority of the Trust units, including Trust units owned by Avalon, voting in person or by proxy at a meeting of such holders at which a quorum is present. Trustee Power to Sell Royalty Interests. The Trustee may sell the Royalty Interests under any of the following circumstances the sale is requested by Avalon in accordance with the provisions of the Trust Agreement; or the sale is approved by the vote of the holders of (i) a majority of the Trust units (excluding Trust units owned by Avalon) and (ii) a majority of the Trust units (including Trust units owned by Avalon), in each case voting in person or by proxy at a meeting of such holders at which a quorum is present; except that at any time that Avalon owns less than 10% of the total Trust units outstanding, the standard for approval will be the vote of the holders of a majority of the Trust units, including Trust units owned by Avalon, voting in person or by proxy at a meeting of such holders at which a quorum is present. Upon dissolution of the Trust, the Trustee must sell those Royalty Interests that do not revert automatically to Avalon pursuant to the terms of the Trust Agreement. No Trust unitholder approval is required in this event. The Trustee will distribute the net proceeds from any sale of the Royalty Interests and other assets to the Trust unitholders after payment or reasonable provision for payment of all liabilities of the Trust, including any amounts owed to its agents (including Avalon acting in such capacity). Permitted Amendments. The Trustee may amend or supplement the Trust Agreement, the conveyances, the Administrative Services Agreement, or the registration rights agreement, without the approval of the Trust unitholders, to cure ambiguities, to correct or supplement defective or inconsistent provisions, to grant any benefit to all Trust unitholders, to evidence or implement any changes required by applicable law, or to change the name of the Trust; provided , however , that any such supplement or amendment does not adversely affect the interests of the Trust unitholders. Furthermore, the Trustee, acting al1, may amend the Administrative Services Agreement without the approval of Trust unitholders if such amendment would not increase the cost or expense of the Trust or create an adverse economic impact on the Trust unitholders. All other permitted amendments to the Trust Agreement and other agreements listed above may only be made by the vote of the holders of (i) a majority of the Trust units (excluding Trust units owned by Avalon) and (ii) a majority of the Trust units (including Trust units owned by Avalon), in each case voting in person or by proxy at a meeting of such holders at which a quorum is present; except that at any time that Avalon owns less than 10% of the total Trust units outstanding, the standard for approval will be the vote of the holders of a majority of the Trust units, including Trust units owned by Avalon, voting in person or by proxy at a meeting of such holders at which a quorum is present. Abstentions and broker non votes will not be deemed to be a vote cast. Miscellaneous. The Trustee may consult with legal counsel (which may include legal counsel to Avalon), accountants, tax advisors, geologists and engineers and other parties the Trustee believes to be qualified as experts on the matters for which advice is sought. The Trustee will be protected for any action it takes in good faith reliance upon the opinion of an expert. The Delaware Trustee and the Trustee may resign at any time or be removed with or without cause at any time by the vote of the holders of a majority of the Trust units (excluding Trust units owned by Avalon), voting in person or by proxy at a meeting of such holders at which a quorum is present; except that at any time that Avalon owns less than 10% of the outstanding Trust units, the standard for approval will be the vote of the holders of a majority of the Trust units, including Trust units owned by Avalon, voting in person or by proxy at a meeting of such holders at which a quorum is present. Abstentions and broker non votes will not be deemed to be a vote cast. Any successor must be a bank or trust company meeting certain requirements including having combined capital, surplus and undivided profits of at least $20 million, in the case of the Delaware Trustee, and $100 million, in the case of the Trustee. 5 Distributions The Trustee makes quarterly cash distributions of substantially all of its cash receipts, after deducting amounts for the Trust administrative expenses, property taxes and Texas franchise taxes, and cash reserves withheld by the Trustee, on or about the 60th day following the completion of each quarter. Each distribution covers production for a 3 month period. The amount of Trust revenues and cash distributions to Trust unitholders depends on oil, natural gas and NGL prices received; volume of oil, natural gas and NGL produced and sold; post production costs (which includes internal costs and third person costs incurred by Avalon) and any applicable taxes; and the Trust general and administrative expenses. The amount of the quarterly distributions will fluctuate from quarter to quarter, depending on the factors discussed above. There is no minimum required distribution. See Note 4 to the financial statements contained in Item 8 of this report for further discussion of Trust distributions. If at any time the Trust cash on hand (including available cash reserves) is not sufficient to pay the Trust ordinary course administrative expenses as they become due, the Trust may borrow funds from the Trustee or other lenders, including Avalon, to pay such expenses. The Trustee has not loaned and does not intend to lend funds to the Trust. If such funds are borrowed, no further distributions will be made to Trust unitholders (except in respect of any previously determined quarterly distribution amount) until the borrowed funds have been repaid. The Trust Agreement provides that, if at any time the Trust cash on hand (including available cash reserves) is not sufficient to pay the Trust ordinary course administrative expenses as they become due, Avalon (as assignee of SandRidge) will, at the Trustee request, loan funds to the Trust necessary to pay such expenses. Any such loan will be on an unsecured basis, and the terms of such loan will be substantially the same as those which would be obtained in an arms length transaction between Avalon and an unaffiliated third party. If Avalon provides such funds to the Trust, Avalon may permit the Trust to make distributions prior to Avalon being repaid for such loan. In addition, Avalon would become a creditor of the Trust and its interest as a creditor could conflict with the interests of other Trust unitholders. The Trust did not borrow funds from SandRidge, and to date, the Trust has not borrowed funds from Avalon. Properties As of December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, the Trust properties consisted of Royalty Interests in (a) the Initial Wells and (b) 856 additional wells (equivalent to 888 Trust Development Wells under the development agreement) that were drilled and perforated for Completion between April 1, 2011 and December 31, 2014. SandRidge was credited for having drilled 1 full Trust Development Well if a well was drilled and perforated for Completion to the Grayburg San Andres formation and SandRidge net revenue interest in the well was equal to 69.3%. For wells in which SandRidge had a net revenue interest equal to or greater than 69.3%, SandRidge received proportionate credit for such well. The wells are located on properties situated in the greater Fuhrman Mascho field, a field in Andrews County, Texas, that produces primarily oil from the Grayburg San Andres formation in the Permian Basin. Proved Reserves . The following estimates of net proved oil, natural gas and NGL reserves are based on reserve reports prepared by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. ( Netherland Sewell ), independent petroleum engineers. The PV 10 and Standardized Measure shown in the table below are not intended to represent the current value of estimated oil, natural gas and NGL reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests as of the dates shown. The reserve reports as of December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 were based on the average price during the 12 month periods ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, using first day of the month prices for each month. Refer to Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report and Trustee Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this report in evaluating the reserve information presented below. Avalon provides, and SandRidge provided prior to the Sale Transaction, certain services respecting the estimation of net proved oil, natural gas and NGL reserves to the Trust pursuant to the terms of the Administrative Services Agreement. SandRidge performed these services on behalf of, and in conjunction with, Avalon pursuant to the terms of the transition services agreement, until April 30, 2019 (the date on which such agreement terminated). Consistent with past practice, the process begins with an Avalon staff reservoir engineer collecting and verifying all pertinent data, including but not limited to well test data, production data, historical pricing, cost information, property ownership interests, reservoir data, and geosciences data. This data was reviewed by various levels of Avalon management for accuracy, before consultation with the independent petroleum engineers. Members of Avalon management, including its staff reservoir engineer, regularly consulted with the independent petroleum engineers during the reserve estimation process to review properties, assumptions, and any new data available. The internal reserve estimates completed and methodologies used by Avalon were compared to the independent petroleum engineers estimates and conclusions before the reserve estimates were included in the independent petroleum engineers reports. Additionally, members of Avalon senior management reviewed and approved the reserve reports contained herein. 6 Internal Controls. Avalon Vice President Petroleum Engineering is the technical person primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of the Trust reserve estimates on behalf of the Trustee. He has a Bachelor of Science degree in Civil Engineering with over 40 years of practical industry experience, including estimating and evaluating reserve information. In addition, he has been a certified professional engineer in the State of Texas since July 1983 and a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers since 1975. In order to ensure the reliability of reserves estimates, Avalon internal controls observed within the reserve estimation process included No employee compensation is tied to the amount of reserves booked. Reserves estimates are prepared by experienced reservoir engineers or under their direct supervision. The Vice President Petroleum Engineering reports directly to Avalon President. Avalon management follows comprehensive SEC compliant internal policies to determine and report proved reserves including confirming that reserve estimates include all applicable properties and are based upon proper working and net revenue interests; reviewing and using in the estimation process data provided by other departments within Avalon, such as Accounting; and comparing and reconciling internally generated reserve estimates to those prepared by third parties. The independent petroleum engineers estimated all of the proved reserve information in these reserve reports in accordance with the definitions and guidelines of the SEC and in conformity with the Accounting Standards Codification Topic 932, Extractive Activities Oil and Gas. Neither Netherland Sewell nor any officer or employee of Avalon owns an interest in any of the Underlying Properties, nor are they employed on a contingent basis. The qualifications of Netherland Sewell technical personnel primarily responsible for overseeing the preparation of the Trust reserves estimates included in this report include the following practicing consulting petroleum engineering since 2013 and over 14 years of prior industry experience; licensed professional engineers in the State of Texas; and a Bachelor of Science Degree in Chemical Engineering. These qualifications meet or exceed the Society of Petroleum Engineers standard requirements to be a professionally qualified Reserve Estimator and Auditor. Reporting of Natural Gas Liquids. Natural gas liquids, or NGL, are produced as a result of the processing of a portion of the Trust natural gas production stream. At December 31, 2019, NGL constituted approximately 9% of the Trust total proved reserves on a barrel equivalent basis and represented volumes to be produced from properties where contracts are in place for the extraction and separate sale of NGL. NGL are products sold by the gallon. In reporting proved reserves and production of NGL, production and reserves have been included in barrels. The extraction of NGL in the processing of natural gas reduces the volume of natural gas available for sale. All production information related to natural gas is reported net of the effect of any reduction in natural gas volumes resulting from the processing and extraction of NGL. 7 A summary of the Trust proved oil, natural gas and NGL reserves, all of which are located in the State of Texas, is presented below December 31, Estimated Proved Reserves(1) 2019 2018 2017 Developed Oil (MBbls) 3,918.7 4,567.5 4,999.9 NGL (MBbls) 4115 6918 758.9 Natural gas (MMcf) 1,359.1 2,1638 2,544.4 Total proved developed (MBoe)(2) 4,556.8 5,619.9 6,1829 Undeveloped(3) Oil (MBbls) NGL (MBbls) Natural gas (MMcf) Total proved undeveloped (MBoe)(2) Total Proved Oil (MBbls) 3,918.7 4,567.5 4,999.9 NGL (MBbls) 4115 6918 758.9 Natural gas (MMcf) 1,359.1 2,1638 2,544.4 Total proved (MBoe)(2) 4,556.8 5,619.9 6,1829 PV 10 (in millions)(4) $ 104.0 $ 135.7 $ 1232 Standardized Measure of Discounted Net Cash Flows (in millions)(5) $ 1038 $ 135.5 $ 1230 (1) Determined using a 12 month average of the first day of the month index price without giving effect to derivative transactions. The prices used in the reserve report yield weighted average wellhead prices, which are based on first day of the month index prices and adjusted for transportation and regional price differentials. The index prices and the equivalent weighted average wellhead prices are shown in the table below. Weighted average wellhead prices Index prices Oil (per Bbl) NGL (per Bbl) Natural gas (per Mcf) Oil (per Bbl) Natural gas (per Mcf) December 31, 2019 $ 5158 $ 19.55 $ 0.88 $ 55.85 $ 258 December 31, 2018 $ 59.12 $ 24.91 $ 189 $ 65.56 $ 310 December 31, 2017 $ 47.70 $ 20.07 $ 213 $ 5134 $ 298 (2) Barrel of oil equivalent, determined using the ratio of six Mcf of natural gas to 1 Bbl of oil, which approximates the relative energy content of oil as compared to natural gas. (3) Royalty Interests conveyed to the Trust by Avalon were in proved properties only. (4) PV 10 is the present value of estimated future net revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves, discounted at 10% per annum to reflect timing of future cash flows and calculated without deducting future income taxes. PV 10 is a non GAAP financial measure and generally differs from standardized measure of discounted net cash flows, or Standardized Measure, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, because it does not include the effects of income taxes on future net revenues. Neither PV 10 nor Standardized Measure are intended to represent an estimate of fair market value of the Royalty Interests. PV 10 is used by the industry as an arbitrary reserve asset value measure to compare the relative size and value of the proved reserves held by companies without regard to the specific tax characteristics of such entities. The following table provides a reconciliation of Standardized Measure to PV 10 December 31, 2019 2018 2017 (in millions) Standardized Measure of Discounted Net Cash Flows (4) $ 1038 $ 135.5 $ 1230 Present value of future income tax discounted at 10% 0.2 0.2 0.2 PV 10 $ 104.0 $ 135.7 $ 1232 8 (5) Standardized Measure represents the present value of estimated future cash inflows from proved oil, natural gas and NGL reserves, less future development and production costs, and income tax expenses, discounted at 10% per annum to reflect timing of future cash flows and using the same pricing assumptions as are used to calculate PV 10. Standardized Measure differs from PV 10 as Standardized Measure includes the effect of future income taxes. Proved reserves are those quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL that, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations, prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for estimation. To be classified as proved reserves, the project to extract the oil or natural gas must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable period of time. The area of a reservoir considered proved includes (i) the area identified by drilling and limited by fluid contacts, if any, and (ii) adjacent undrilled portions of the reservoir that can, with reasonable certainty, be judged to be continuous with the identified area and to contain economically producible oil or natural gas on the basis of available geoscience and engineering data. In the absence of data on fluid contacts, proved quantities in a reservoir are limited by the lowest known hydrocarbons as seen in a well penetration unless geoscience, engineering or performance data and reliable technology establish a lower contact with reasonable certainty. Where direct observation from well penetrations has defined a highest known oil elevation and the potential exists for an associated gas cap, proved oil reserves may be assigned in the structurally higher portions of the reservoir only if geoscience, engineering or performance data and reliable technology establish the higher contact with reasonable certainty. Reserves that can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the proved classification when (i) successful testing by a pilot project in an area of the reservoir with properties no more favorable than in the reservoir as a whole, the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, or an analogous reservoir, or other evidence using reliable technology establishes the reasonable certainty of the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based and (ii) the project has been approved for development by all necessary parties and entities, including governmental entities. Existing economic conditions include prices and costs at which hydrocarbons can be economically produced from a known reservoir. In determining the amount of proved reserves, the price used must be the average price during the 12 month period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the reserve report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first day of the month price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions. Proved Undeveloped Reserves. SandRidge was obligated to drill, or cause to be drilled, the Trust Development Wells by March 31, 2016. SandRidge fulfilled its drilling obligation to the Trust in November 2014, and neither SandRidge nor Avalon has any future drilling obligations to the Trust. Accordingly, the Trust has not had any proved undeveloped reserves since December 31, 2014 and will not have any proved undeveloped reserves in the future. Production and Price History The following tables set forth information regarding the net oil, natural gas and NGL production attributable to the Royalty Interests and certain price and cost information for each of the periods indicated. 9 Year Ended December 31, 2019 (1) 2018 (2) 2017 (3) Production Data Oil (MBbls) 414 485 584 NGL (MBbls) 57 72 83 Natural gas (MMcf) 181 227 281 Combined equivalent volumes (MBoe)(4) 501 595 714 Average daily combined equivalent volumes (MBoe d) 14 16 20 Average Prices Oil (per Bbl) $ 50.77 $ 56.96 $ 45.44 NGL (per Bbl) $ 20.00 $ 24.16 $ 19.27 Combined oil and NGL (per Bbl) $ 47.06 $ 5270 $ 4218 Natural gas (per Mcf) $ 122 $ 191 $ 230 Combined equivalent (per Boe) $ 44.66 $ 50.08 $ 40.33 Average Prices including impact of post production expenses Natural gas (per Mcf) $ 0.95 $ 171 $ 210 Combined equivalent (per Boe) $ 44.56 $ 50.00 $ 40.24 Expenses (per Boe) Post production $ 0.10 $ 0.08 $ 0.08 Production taxes $ 212 $ 239 $ 193 Total expenses $ 222 $ 247 $ 201 (1) Production volumes and related revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019 (included in 2019 net revenue distributions to the Trust) represent production from September 1, 2018 to August 31, 2019. (2) Production volumes and related revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2018 (included in 2018 net revenue distributions to the Trust) represent production from September 1, 2017 to August 31, 2018. (3) Production volumes and related revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017 (included in 2017 net revenue distributions to the Trust) represent production from September 1, 2016 to August 31, 2017. (4) Barrel of oil equivalent, determined using the ratio of six Mcf of natural gas to 1 Bbl of oil, which approximates the relative energy content of oil as compared to natural gas. Productive Wells The following table sets forth as of December 31, 2019 the number of productive wells burdened by the Royalty Interests. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of producing. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells burdened by the Royalty Interests and net wells are the sum of the Trust fractional Royalty Interests owned in gross wells. Oil Natural Gas Total Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Productive Wells 1,035 565 1,035 565 Developed and Undeveloped Acreage As of December 2014, SandRidge had drilled and perforated for completion 888 equivalent Trust Development Wells, thus fulfilling its drilling obligation. Accordingly, the AMI terminated effective December 2014, and no undeveloped acreage constituting a part of the Underlying Properties exists. Drilling Activity There were no wells drilled or completed during 2019 or 2018, and there were no wells to be drilled or awaiting completion at December 31, 2019 or 2018. 10 Marketing and Customers Avalon has the responsibility to market, or cause to be marketed, the oil, natural gas and NGL production attributable to the Underlying Properties and is not permitted to charge any marketing fees when determining the net proceeds upon which the royalty payments are calculated, except for marketing fees and costs of non affiliates. SandRidge performed these services on behalf of, and in conjunction with, Avalon during the first four months of 2019 pursuant to the terms of the transition services agreement, which terminated on April 30, 2019. As a result, the net proceeds to the Trust from the sales of oil, natural gas and NGL production from the Underlying Properties for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are determined based on the same price (net of post production costs) that Avalon received for oil, natural gas and NGL production attributable to its interest in the Underlying Properties. During each of 2019 and 2018, 2 customers individually accounted for more than 10% of total revenue attributable to the Royalty Interests. The number of readily available purchasers for the production from the Underlying Properties reduces the risk that the loss of a single customer in the area in which Avalon sells oil, natural gas and NGL production from the Underlying Properties would materially affect the Trust revenue. See the table below for additional information on Avalon major customers for production from the Underlying Properties from January 1, 2018 to October 31, 2019. Sales % of Revenue (in thousands) 2019 Enterprise Crude Oil LLC $ 17,063 812 % ConocoPhillips Company $ 3,951 18.8 % 2018 Enterprise Crude Oil LLC $ 22,685 76.0 % ConocoPhillips Company $ 4,917 16.5 % In October 2019, Avalon entered into a crude oil purchasing agreement with Ace Gathering Inc., a Texas corporation doing business as Ace Energy Solutions ( ACE ). Pursuant to the terms of the contract, Avalon is required to deliver all crude oil produced from wells it operates, including the Underlying Properties, beginning November 1, 2019. As a result, all production from the Underlying Properties is committed to ACE under the contract through December 31, 2021 The price for each barrel of crude oil delivered under the contract is NYMEX West Texas Intermediate averaged over the month of delivery, subject to certain adjustments as set forth in the contract. Avalon entered into this contract, together with an agreement whereby Avalon can purchase condensate from ACE to use in its well workover program, in order to maximize the price of production, as well as the transparency of pricing, from the Underlying Properties and other properties operated by Avalon. Transportation of crude oil sold by Avalon will continue to utilize existing pipeline systems and suppliers, including Enterprise Crude Oil LLC and ConocoPhillips Company. Title to Properties The Underlying Properties are subject to certain burdens that are described in more detail below. To the extent that these burdens and obligations affect the rights of Avalon in production and the value of production from the Underlying Properties, they have been taken into account in calculating the Trust interest and in estimating the size and value of the reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests. The Underlying Properties are typically subject, in 1 degree or another, to 1 or more of the following royalties and other burdens, express and implied, under oil and natural gas leases; production payments and similar interests and other burdens created by Avalon predecessors in title; a variety of contractual obligations arising under operating agreements, farm out agreements, production sales contracts and other agreements that may affect the Underlying Properties or their titles; liens that arise in the normal course of operations, such as those for unpaid taxes, statutory liens securing unpaid suppliers and contractors and contractual liens under operating agreements that are not yet delinquent or, if delinquent, are being contested in good faith; pooling, unitization and communitization agreements, declarations and orders; easements, restrictions, rights of way and other matters that commonly affect real property; conventional rights of reassignment that obligate Avalon to reassign all or part of a property to a third party if Avalon intends to release or abandon such property; and rights reserved to or vested in the appropriate governmental agency or authority to control or regulate the Underlying Properties. 11 Avalon believes that its title to the Underlying Properties and the Trust title to the Royalty Interests are good and defensible in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and natural gas industry, subject to such exceptions as are not so material as to detract substantially from the use or value of such properties or Royalty Interests. Competition and Markets The production and sale of oil, natural gas and NGL is highly competitive. Competitors in the Permian Basin include major oil and gas companies, independent oil and gas companies, and individual producers and operators. There are numerous producers in the Permian Basin, and competitive position in this area is affected by price, contract terms and quality of service. Oil, natural gas and NGL compete with other forms of energy available to customers, primarily based on price. These alternate forms of energy include electricity, coal and fuel oils. Changes in the availability or price of oil, natural gas or other forms of energy, as well as business conditions, conservation, legislation, regulations and the ability to convert to alternate fuels and other forms of energy may affect the demand for oil, natural gas and NGL. Future price fluctuations for oil, natural gas and NGL will directly impact Trust distributions, estimates of reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests and estimated and actual future net revenues to the Trust. Due to the many uncertainties that affect the supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGL, reliable predictions of future oil, natural gas and NGL supply and demand, future product prices or the effect of future product prices on Trust distributions cannot be made. However, lower production volumes and product prices will adversely affect Trust distributions. Seasonal Nature of Business Generally, demand for oil, natural gas and NGL decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. Certain natural gas users utilize natural gas storage facilities and purchase some of their anticipated winter requirements during the summer, which can lessen seasonal demand fluctuations. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations can limit producing activities and other oil and natural gas operations. These seasonal anomalies can increase competition for equipment, supplies and personnel during the spring and summer months, which could lead to shortages and increased costs or delay operations. Insurance Avalon operates all of the wells burdened by the Royalty Interests. Avalon maintains insurance, in accordance with industry practice, against some, but not all, of the operating risks to which its operating affiliate is exposed. Generally, insurance policies include coverage for general liability (including sudden and accidental pollution), physical damage to certain oil and natural gas properties, auto liability, worker compensation and employer liability, among other things. Avalon maintains general liability insurance coverage up to $1 million per occurrence and $2 million aggregate policy limit, which includes (i) completed operations coverage and (ii) sudden and accidental environmental liability coverage for the effects of pollution on third parties, arising from operations. The general liability insurance policy contains limits subject to certain customary exclusions and limitations, as well as deductibles that must be met prior to recovery. In addition, Avalon maintains $25 million in excess liability coverage, which is in addition to and triggered if the general liability per occurrence limit is reached, and may be subject to a deductible that must be met prior to recovery. Avalon also maintains worker compensation coverage in accordance with Texas statutory requirements and employee liability coverage of $1 million by accident or by disease. All of Avalon third party contractors are required to sign master services agreements in which they agree (a) to indemnify Avalon for injuries and deaths of the service provider employees as well as contractors and subcontractors hired by the service provider and (b) name Avalon as an additional insured on their insurance policies. Similarly, Avalon generally agrees to indemnify each third party contractor against claims made by employees of Avalon and Avalon other contractors. Additionally, each party generally is responsible for damage to its own property. The third party contractors that perform hydraulic fracturing operations sign the master services agreements containing the indemnification provisions noted above. Currently there are no insurance policies in effect intended to provide coverage for losses solely related to hydraulic fracturing operations as n1 have been performed by Avalon on the Underlying Properties or other properties owned by Avalon. Avalon annually re evaluates the purchase of insurance, coverage limits and deductibles. Future insurance coverage for the oil and natural gas industry could increase in cost and may include higher deductibles or retentions. In addition, some forms of insurance may become unavailable in the future or unavailable on terms that are economically acceptable. No assurance can be given that insurance may be maintained in the future at rates considered reasonable. Self insurance or only catastrophic coverage may be elected for certain risks in the future. 12 The Trust does not maintain any insurance policies or coverage against any of the risks of conducting oil and gas exploration and production or related activities. Regulation Oil and Natural Gas Regulations. The oil and natural gas industry is extensively regulated by numerous federal, state, local and regional authorities, as well as Native American tribes. Legislation affecting the oil and natural gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, and Native American tribes are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations affecting the oil and natural gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for noncompliance. Although the regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases the cost of doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability, these burdens generally do not affect SandRidge or Avalon any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. The availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of oil, natural gas and NGL. The interstate transportation and sale for resale of oil, natural gas and NGL is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ( FERC ). Federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to oil and natural gas pipeline transportation. FERC regulations for interstate oil and natural gas transmission in some circumstances may also affect the intrastate transportation of oil and natural gas. However, sales of oil, natural gas and NGL produced from the Underlying Properties are not currently regulated and are transacted at market prices. Although oil, natural gas and NGL prices are currently unregulated, Congress historically has been active in the area of oil and natural gas regulation. Whether new legislation to regulate oil, natural gas and NGL prices might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by Congress or the various state legislatures, and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the operations of the Underlying Properties cannot be predicted. Production. Operations are subject to various types of regulation at federal, state and local levels. These types of regulation include reports concerning operations. Most states, and some counties, municipalities and Native American tribal areas also regulate 1 or more of the following activities the rates of production, or allowables , the use of surface or subsurface waters, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, the plugging and abandoning of wells, and the notice to surface owners and other third parties. State laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and natural gas properties. Some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce Avalon interest in the unitized properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and natural gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. These laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil, natural gas and NGL production from its wells or limit the number of wells or the locations which can be drilled. Moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, natural gas and NGL within its jurisdiction. Federal, state and local regulations provide detailed requirements for the abandonment of wells, closure or decommissioning of production facilities and pipelines, and for site restorations, in areas where the Underlying Properties are located. For example, the Railroad Commission of Texas imposes financial assurance requirements on operators, and the United States Army Corps of Engineers ( ACE ) and many other state and local authorities also have regulations for plugging and abandonment, decommissioning and site restoration. Natural Gas Sales and Transportation . Historically, federal legislation and regulatory controls have affected the price of the natural gas Avalon produces and the manner in which Avalon markets its production. FERC has jurisdiction over the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce by natural gas companies under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. Various federal laws enacted since 1978 have resulted in the removal of all price and non price controls for sale of domestic natural gas sold in first sales, which include all of Avalon sales of from the Underlying Properties. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has substantial enforcement authority to prohibit the manipulation of natural gas markets and enforce its rules and orders, including the ability to assess substantial civil penalties. FERC also regulates interstate natural gas transportation rates and service conditions and establishes the terms under which Avalon may use interstate natural gas pipeline capacity, which affects the marketing of natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties, as well as the revenues it receives for sales of its natural gas and release of its natural gas pipeline capacity. Commencing in 1985, FERC promulgated a series of orders, regulations and rule makings that significantly fostered competition in the business of transporting and marketing gas. Currently, interstate pipeline companies are required to provide nondiscriminatory transportation services to producers, marketers and other shippers, regardless of whether such shippers are affiliated with an interstate pipeline company. FERC initiatives have led to the development of a competitive, open access market for natural gas purchases and sales that permits all purchasers of natural gas to buy gas directly from third party sellers other than pipelines. However, the natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, the less stringent regulatory approach currently pursued by FERC and Congress might not continue indefinitely into the future. Avalon is not able to determine what effect, if any, future regulatory changes might have on future natural gas related activities with respect to the Underlying Properties. 13 Under FERC current regulatory regime, transmission services must be provided on an open access, nondiscriminatory basis at cost based rates or at market based rates if the transportation market at issue is sufficiently competitive. Gathering service, which occurs upstream of jurisdictional transmission services, is regulated by the states in the case of Texas by the Railroad Commission of Texas. Although its policy is still in flux, in the past FERC has reclassified certain jurisdictional transmission facilities as non jurisdictional gathering facilities, which has the tendency to increase the cost of transporting gas to point of sale locations. Oil Price Controls and Transportation Rates. Sales prices of oil and NGL produced from the Underlying Properties are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. Sales of these commodities are, however, subject to laws and to regulations issued by the Federal Trade Commission (the FTC ) prohibiting manipulative or fraudulent conduct in the wholesale petroleum market. The FTC holds substantial enforcement authority under these regulations, including the ability to assess substantial civil penalties. The price received from the sale of these products may be affected by the cost of transporting the products to market. Some transportation of oil, natural gas and NGL is through interstate common carrier pipelines. Effective as of January 1, 1995, FERC implemented regulations generally grandfathering all previously approved interstate transportation rates and establishing an indexing system for those rates by which adjustments are made annually based on the rate of inflation, subject to certain conditions and limitations. FERC regulation of crude oil and natural gas liquids transportation rates may tend to increase the cost of transporting crude oil and natural gas liquids by interstate pipelines, although the annual adjustments may result in decreased rates in a given year. Every five years, FERC must examine the relationship between the annual change in the applicable index and the actual cost changes experienced in the oil pipeline industry. Avalon is not able at this time to predict the effects of these regulations or FERC proceedings, if any, on the transportation costs associated with crude oil producing operations. Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health Regulation. Oil, natural gas and NGL exploration, development and production operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state, tribal, regional and local laws and regulations governing worker safety and health, the discharge and disposal of substances into the environment, and the protection of the environment and natural resources. Numerous governmental entities, including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ), the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ( OSHA ), ACE, and analogous state and local agencies (and, under certain laws, private individuals), have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and any permits issued under them. These laws and regulations may, among other things (i) require permits to conduct exploration, drilling, water withdrawal, wastewater disposal and other production related activities; (ii) govern the types, quantities and concentrations of substances that may be disposed or released into the environment or injected into formations in connection with drilling or production activities, and the manner of any such disposal, release or injection; (iii) limit or prohibit construction or require formal mitigation measures in sensitive areas such as wetlands, wilderness areas or areas inhabited by endangered or threatened species; (iv) require investigatory and remedial actions to mitigate pollution conditions arising from or attributable to former operations of the Underlying Properties; (v) impose safety and health restrictions designed to protect employees from exposure to hazardous or dangerous substances; and (vi) impose obligations to reclaim and abandon well sites and pits. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory, remedial or corrective action obligations, the occurrence of delays or restrictions in permitting or performance of projects and the issuance of orders enjoining operations in affected areas. Since taking office, the Trump Administration has taken steps aimed at reducing federal regulatory burdens and costs for the oil and gas industry. Nevertheless, changes in environmental regulation may place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. Any changes in or more stringent enforcement of these laws and regulations that result in delays or restrictions in permitting or development of projects, or more stringent or costly construction, drilling, water management or completion activities or waste handling, storage, transport, remediation, or disposal, emission or discharge requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Trust revenues. Moreover, accidental releases, including spills, may occur in the course of operations on the Underlying Properties, and significant costs could be incurred as a result of such releases or spills, including third party claims for damage to property and natural resources or personal injury. While Avalon believes that compliance with existing environmental laws and regulations and that continued compliance with existing requirements will not materially affect operation of the Underlying Properties, it is possible that Avalon may incur substantial costs in the future related to revised or additional environmental regulations that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. 14 The following is a summary of the more significant existing and proposed environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations, as amended from time to time, to which the Underlying Properties and Avalon's business operations are subject and for which compliance may have a material adverse impact on the Trust or operation of the Underlying Properties. Hazardous Substances and Wastes. The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ( CERCLA ) and comparable state laws may impose strict, joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct on certain persons who are responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include current and prior owners or operators of the site where the release of a hazardous substance occurred as well as entities that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substance released at the site. Under CERCLA, these responsible parties may be liable for the costs of cleaning up sites where hazardous substances have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources resulting from the release and for the costs of certain environmental and health studies. Additionally, landowners and other third parties may file claims for personal injury and natural resource and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances into the environment. CERCLA also authorizes the EPA and, in some instances, third parties to act in response to threats to the public health or the environment from a hazardous substance release and to pursue steps to recover costs incurred for those actions from responsible parties. Despite the so called petroleum exclusion, certain products used by Avalon and used previously by SandRidge in the course of operations at the Underlying Properties may be regulated as CERCLA hazardous substances. To date, n1 of the Underlying Properties have been subject to CERCLA response actions. The federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ) and comparable state statutes and implementing regulations impose strict cradle to grave requirements on the generation, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non hazardous wastes. SandRidge, Avalon and any other operators of the Underlying Properties have and will generate wastes that are subject to the requirements of RCRA and comparable state statutes. Drilling fluids, produced waters and other wastes associated with the exploration, production and or development of oil and natural gas, including naturally occurring radioactive material, if properly handled, are currently excluded from regulation as hazardous wastes under RCRA and, instead, are regulated under RCRA less stringent non hazardous waste requirements. However, it is possible that these wastes could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. For example, in December 2016, the EPA and environmental groups entered into a consent decree to address the EPA alleged failure to timely assess its RCRA Subtitle D criteria regulations exempting certain exploration and production related oil and natural gas wastes from regulation as hazardous wastes under RCRA. The consent decree requires the EPA to propose a rulemaking no later than March 15, 2019 for revision of certain Subtitle D criteria regulations pertaining to oil and natural gas wastes or to sign a determination that revision of the regulations is not necessary. The EPA fulfilled its obligation under the consent decree by issuing a determination on April 23, 2019 that revisions to existing RCRA Subtitle D regulations governing oil and natural gas wastes are not necessary, along with a report supporting that determination. Any future change in the exclusion for such wastes could potentially result in an increase in the cost of managing and disposing of those wastes. Air Emissions and Climate Change. The federal Clean Air Act, as amended ( CAA ), and comparable state laws and regulations restrict the emission of air pollutants through emissions standards, construction and operating permitting programs, and the imposition of other compliance requirements. These laws and regulations may require pre approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce or significantly increase air emissions, strict compliance with air permit requirements or the utilization of specific equipment or technologies to control emissions. The need to acquire such permits has the potential to delay or limit the development of oil and natural gas projects or require Avalon to incur certain capital expenditures for air pollution control equipment or other air emissions related issues. Furthermore, in 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and certain other greenhouse gases (collectively, GHGs ) present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. The EPA has taken a number of steps aimed at gathering information about, and reducing the emissions of, GHGs from industrial sources, including oil and natural gas sources. The EPA has adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from oil, natural gas and NGL production and processing facilities on an annual basis, as well as reporting GHG emissions from gathering and boosting systems, oil well completions and workovers using hydraulic fracturing. The EPA also has adopted and implemented regulations under existing provisions of the CAA that, among other things, establish Prevention of Significant Deterioration ( PSD ) construction and Title V operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that already are potential major sources of certain principal, or criteria, pollutant emissions. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to meet best available control technology standards that typically are established by the states. This rule could adversely affect Avalon operations upon the Underlying Properties and restrict or delay its ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities that exceed GHG emission thresholds. In 2012, the EPA published a final rule adopting federal New Source Performance Standards ( NSPS ) that require the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from certain fractured and refractured natural gas wells for which well completion is conducted and further require that most wells use reduced emission completions, also known as green completions. These regulations also establish specific new requirements regarding emissions from production related wet seal and reciprocating compressors, and from pneumatic controllers and storage vessels. In June 2016, the EPA published a final rule adopting additional NSPS requirements for new, modified, or reconstructed oil and gas facilities that require control of the greenhouse gas methane from affected facilities, including requirements to find and repair fugitive leaks of methane emissions at well sites ( Methane Rule ). In addition, in November 2016, the U.S. Department of the Interior Bureau of Land Management ( BLM ) issued final rules to reduce methane emissions from venting, flaring, and leaks during oil and gas operations on federal and tribal lands (the BLM Methane and Waste Prevention Rule ) that are substantially similar to the EPA Methane Rule. 15 The EPA also is charged with establishing ambient air quality standards, the implementation of which can indirectly impact Avalon operations. For example, in October 2015, the EPA lowered the National Ambient Air Quality Standard ( NAAQS ), for oz1 from 75 to 70 parts per billion. Although the EPA has designated all counties in which the Underlying Properties are located as attainment areas for the 2015 oz1 standard, these determinations may be revised in the future. State implementation of the revised NAAQS could result in stricter permitting requirements, delay or prohibit Avalon ability to obtain such permits, and result in increased expenditures for pollution control equipment, the costs of which could be significant. Following the 2016 presidential election and change in administrations, President Trump signed Executive Order 13783 directing federal agencies to review and, if appropriate, revise all existing regulations that potentially burden the development or use of domestic energy resources, with particular attention to oil and gas. Pursuant to the Executive Order, the BLM and EPA commenced reviews of the BLM Methane and Waste Prevention Rule and the oil and gas NSPS, respectively. In December 2017, the BLM published a final rule to temporarily suspend or delay certain requirements contained in the November 2016 final rule until January 17, 2019, including those requirements relating to venting, flaring and leakage from oil and gas production activities. Further, in September 2018, the BLM published a final rule revising or rescinding certain provisions of the BLM Methane and Waste Prevention Rule. This action has been challenged by the states of California and New Mexico, as well as environmental groups, in the Northern District of California. Such litigation is still pending. Separately, the EPA review of its regulations resulted in (a) then EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt withdrawing the request for information needed to develop emissions guidelines for existing facilities in March, 2017, (b) a proposal to delay implementation of the Methane Rule, and (c) the convening of a reconsideration proceeding that resulted in 2 2018 rulemaking projects aimed at rolling back certain Methane Rule requirements. In August 2019, the EPA proposed amendments to the Methane Rule aimed at eliminating federal requirements that oil and gas companies install technology to detect and fix methane leaks from wells, pipelines and storage facilities, while maintaining the rule substantive emissions control requirements because they serve to control emissions of other, non methane pollutants.. The ultimate fate of the Methane Rule requirements is unclear. Nevertheless, regulations promulgated under the CAA may require Avalon to incur expenses to install and utilize specific equipment, technologies, or work practices to control emissions from its operations. The Congressional reaction to the BLM and EPA action has been mixed, but there seems to be growing support, at least in the House of Representatives, in support for maintaining and potentially strengthening methane regulation. During the current Congressional session, five bills have been introduced which, if enacted, would codify existing methane regulations and or force additional regulatory action. Examples include the Super Pollutants Act (H.R. 4143), which would codify the oil and gas NSPS and require the EPA to develop emissions guidelines for existing oil and gas facilities within 2 years, and the CLEAN Future Act which aims to achieve a 100% clean economy by not later than 2050 including a plan to achieve net zero GHGs. Although future federal GHG regulations for the oil and gas industry remain a possibility given the long term trend towards increasing regulation, the form of these regulations remains uncertain as the Trump administration has made it clear they will oppose any such regulation. Moreover, several states have already adopted rules requiring operators of both new and existing oil and gas facilities to develop and implement leak detection and repair ( LDAR ) program and to install devices on certain equipment to capture 95% of methane emissions. Compliance with these rules could require Avalon to purchase pollution control equipment and optical gas imaging equipment for LDAR inspections, and to hire additional personnel to assist with inspection and reporting requirements. Compliance with these and other air pollution control and permitting requirements has the potential to increase Avalon production costs, which costs could be significant. Additionally, violations of lease conditions or regulations related to air emissions can result in civil and criminal penalties, as well as potential court injunctions curtailing operations and canceling leases. Such enforcement liabilities can result from either governmental or citizen enforcement. Water Discharges. The federal Clean Water Act ( CWA ) and analogous state laws and implementing regulations impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States and waters of the states, respectively. Pursuant to these laws and regulations, the discharge of pollutants to regulated waters is prohibited unless it is permitted by the EPA, ACE or an analogous state agency. The discharge of wastewater from most onshore oil and gas exploration and production activities is currently prohibited east of the 98 th meridian. Additionally, in June 2016, the EPA issued a final rule implementing wastewater pre treatment standards that prohibit onshore unconventional oil and natural gas extraction facilities from sending wastewater directly to publicly owned treatment works ( POTW ). Unconventional extraction facilities are in certain circumstances allowed by federal regulations to send wastewater to an off site private centralized wastewater treatment facility that can either discharge treated water or send it to a POTW. The EPA is conducting a study of the treatment and discharge of oil and gas wastewater. Any restriction of disposal options for hydraulic fracturing waste and other changes to CWA discharge requirements may result in increased costs. Avalon does not presently discharge pollutants associated with the exploration, development and production of oil, natural gas and NGL on the Underlying Properties into federal or state waters. Rather, it disposes of such fluids by regulated injection into salt water disposal wells located on the Underlying Properties in compliance with the Underground Injection Control program described below. 16 How the EPA and the ACE define waters of the United States ( WOTUS ) can impact Avalon regulatory and permitting obligations under the CWA. The EPA and the ACE promulgated rules defining the scope of WOTUS that became effective in September 2015. On October 22, 2019, the EPA and the ACE published a final rule that repealed the 2015 definition of WOTUS and recodified longstanding regulatory definitions of WOTUS that existed prior to the 2015 rule to promote regulatory consistency across the United States. On February 14, 2019, EPA and the ACE had published a proposed revised definition of WOTUS intended to clarify and narrow the definition from that in the 2015 rule. The comment period on the proposed changes to the definition of WOTUS closed on April 15, 2019, and a final rule is expected to be published in early 2020. It is anticipated that petitions for review of any 2020 WOTUS rule will be filed and that litigation over the definition of WOTUS will continue. To the extent that Avalon must obtain permits for the discharge of pollutants or for dredge and fill activities in wetland areas or other waters of the United States, Avalon could face increased costs and delays associated with obtaining such permits under any broader definition of WOTUS that expands the scope of CWA jurisdiction. Finally, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ( OPA ), which amends the CWA, establishes standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills into waters of the United States. The OPA requires measures to be taken to prevent the accidental discharge of oil into waters of the United States from onshore production facilities. Measures under the OPA and or the CWA include inspection and maintenance programs to minimize spills from oil storage and conveyance systems; the use of secondary containment systems to prevent spills from reaching nearby waterbodies; proof of financial responsibility to cover environmental cleanup and restoration costs that could be incurred in connection with an oil spill; and the development and implementation of spill prevention, control and countermeasure ( SPCC ) plans to prevent and respond to oil spills. The OPA also subjects owners and operators of facilities to strict, joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from a spill. SandRidge has developed and implemented SPCC plans for the Underlying Properties as required under the CWA, and Avalon is continuing to administer these SPCC plans. Subsurface Injections. Any underground injection operations that may be performed by Avalon in the future are subject to the Safe Drinking Water Act ( SDWA ), as well as analogous state laws and regulations. Under the SDWA, the EPA established the Underground Injection Control ( UIC ) program, which established the minimum program requirements for state and local programs regulating underground injection activities. The UIC program includes requirements for permitting, testing, monitoring, record keeping and reporting of injection well activities, as well as a prohibition against the migration of fluid containing any contaminant into underground sources of drinking water. Texas state regulations require a permit from the Railroad Commission of Texas to operate underground injection wells. Avalon has obtained such UIC permits. Although Avalon monitors the injection process of its injectionl wells, any leakage from the subsurface portions of such wells could cause degradation of fresh groundwater resources, potentially resulting in suspension of Avalon UIC permit, issuance of fines and penalties from governmental agencies, incurrence of expenditures for remediation of the affected resource and imposition of liability by third parties claiming damages for alternative water supplies, property damages and personal injuries. Some states have considered laws mandating flowback and produced water recycling. Other states, including Texas, have undertaken studies to assess the feasibility of recycling produced water on a large scale. For example, in July 2018, the EPA partnered with New Mexico to evaluate alternatives to injection of wastewater from exploration and production activities by reusing it or treating it for reintroduction into the hydrologic cycle or both, and to propose potential regulations related thereto. If laws mandating reuse and or treatment in lieu of injection are adopted for the counties in which the Underlying Properties are located, Avalon operating costs may increase significantly. Endangered Species. The federal Endangered Species Act ( ESA ) restricts activities that may affect endangered or threatened species or their habitats without first obtaining an incidental take permit and implementing mitigation measures. Similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the federal Migratory Bird Treaty Act. If endangered species are located in areas of the Underlying Properties where seismic surveys, development activities or abandonment operations may be conducted, the work could be prohibited or delayed or expensive mitigation may be required. In February 2016, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service ( USFWS ) published a final policy which alters how it identifies critical habitat for endangered and threatened species. On August 27, 2019, the USFWS published a final rule adopting several changes to ESA regulations, including changes to the procedures and criteria for listing or removing species from the Lists of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants and for designating critical habitat. A critical habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or development. The designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where operations on the Underlying Properties are located could cause Avalon to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on exploration and production activities that could have an adverse impact on the ability to develop and produce reserves from the Underlying Properties. Employee Health and Safety. The operations of Avalon are subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act and comparable state statutes, whose purpose is to protect the health and safety of workers. In addition, the Hazard Communication Standard implemented by OSHA requires Avalon to maintain information concerning hazardous materials used or produced in its operations and to provide this information to employees. Pursuant to the Federal Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, facilities that store hazardous chemicals that are subject to OSHA Hazard Communication Standard above certain threshold quantities must submit information regarding those chemicals by March 1 of each year to state and local authorities in order to facilitate emergency planning and response. That information is generally available to employees, state and local governmental authorities, and the public. Avalon has been and is submitting this information to these authorities for the Underlying Properties. 17 Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Trust Units Producing oil, natural gas and NGL from the Underlying Properties is a high risk activity with many uncertainties that could adversely affect future production from the Underlying Properties. Any such reductions in production could decrease cash that is available for distribution to unitholders. Production operations on the Underlying Properties may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of various factors, including the following reductions in oil, natural gas and NGL prices; unusual or unexpected geological formations and miscalculations; equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities; ack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines; lack of adequate electrical infrastructure and water disposal capacity; unexpected operational events; pipe or cement failures and casing collapses; pressures, fires, blowouts and explosions; uncontrollable flows of oil, NGL, natural gas, brine, water or drilling fluids; natural disasters; environmental hazards, such as oil spills, natural gas and NGL leaks, pipeline or tank ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials, and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services, or water used in hydraulic fracturing; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; adverse weather conditions, such as extreme cold, fires caused by extreme heat or lack of rain and severe storms or tornadoes; and market limitations for oil, natural gas and NGL. If production from the Trust wells is lower than anticipated due to 1 or more of the foregoing factors or for any other reason, cash distributions to Trust unitholders may be reduced. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices can fluctuate widely due to a number of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust and Avalon. Continued volatility in oil, natural gas or NGL prices could reduce proceeds to the Trust and cash distributions to unitholders. The value of the petroleum reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests and the amount of revenue available for quarterly cash distributions to Trust unitholders are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of oil, natural gas and NGL produced from the Underlying Properties. Historically, the markets for these hydrocarbons have been very volatile. Prices for oil, natural gas and NGL can move quickly and fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust or Avalon. These factors include, among others changes in regional, domestic and foreign supply of, and demand for, oil, natural gas and NGL, as well as perceptions of supply of, and demand for, oil, natural gas and NGL generally; the price and quantity of foreign imports; the ability of other companies to complete and commission liquefied natural gas export facilities in the U.S.; 18 U.S. and worldwide political and economic conditions; the occurrence or threat of epidemic or pandemic diseases, including the recent outbreak of coronavirus, or any government response to such occurrence or threat; weather conditions and seasonal trends; future prices of oil, natural gas and NGL, alternative fuels and other commodities; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipeline infrastructure, treating, transportation and refining capacity; natural disasters and other extraordinary events; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; energy conservation and environmental measures; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets, which is expected to continue, make it extremely difficult to predict future oil, natural gas and NGL price movements with any certainty. For crude oil, from January 2018 through December 2019, the highest spot price for West Texas Intermediate (WTI) was $76.41 per Bbl and the lowest was $4253 per Bbl. For natural gas, from January 2018 through December 2019, the highest Henry Hub natural gas spot price was $4.25 per MMBtu and the lowest was $175 per MMBtu. In addition, the market price of oil and natural gas is generally lower in the summer months than during the winter months of the year due to decreased demand for oil and natural gas for heating purposes during the summer season. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices experienced substantial fluctuations during 2019 ending the year at $6106 Bbl (spot price for WTI crude oil), or up approximately 312% from the January 2, 2019 spot price of $46.54 Bbl. A buildup in inventories, lower global demand, or other factors, including 1 or more factors listed above, have caused prices for U.S. oil to weaken further, and could result in additional declines from current levels. The spot price for WTI crude oil has decreased a further 50.6% from $6117 on January 2, 2020 to $30.24 on March 9, 2020. Continued low oil, natural gas and NGL prices will reduce proceeds to which the Trust is entitled and may ultimately reduce the amount of oil, natural gas and NGL that is economic to produce from the Underlying Properties causing the Trust to make substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. As a result, Avalon could determine during periods of low oil, natural gas or NGL prices to shut in or curtail production from wells that are not producing in paying quantities (using the Reasonably Prudent Operator Standard) on the Underlying Properties. Furthermore, pursuant to the terms of the Conveyances, Avalon has the right to abandon, at its cost, any well if it reasonably believes that the well can no longer produce oil, natural gas and NGL in paying quantities. This could result in termination of the portion of the Royalty Interest relating to the aband1d well, and Avalon has no obligation to drill a replacement well. Actual petroleum reserves and future production may be less than current estimates, which could reduce cash distributions by the Trust and the value of the Trust units. The value of the Trust units and the amount of future cash distributions to the Trust unitholders will depend upon, among other things, the accuracy of the reserves estimated to be attributable to the Royalty Interests. It is not possible to accurately measure underground accumulations of oil, natural gas and NGL in an exact way and estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. As discussed below, the process of estimating oil, natural gas and NGL reserves requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of the reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests. This could result in actual production and revenues for the Underlying Properties being materially less than estimated amounts. In order to prepare the estimates of reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties and the Royalty Interests, production rates must be projected. In so doing, available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data must be analyzed. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. In addition, petroleum engineers are required to make subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil, natural gas and NGL based on factors and assumptions that include historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas; oil, natural gas and NGL prices, production levels, Btu content, production expenses, transportation costs, severance and excise taxes and capital expenditures; and the assumed effect of governmental regulation. A material and adverse variance of actual production, revenues and expenditures from those underlying reserve estimates would have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Trust and would reduce cash distributions to Trust unitholders. As a result, the Trust may not receive the benefit of the total amount of reserves reflected in the reserve report. 19 If the Trust cannot meet the New York Stock Exchange continued listing requirements, the NYSE may delist the Trust units. Under the continued listing requirements of The New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ), a company will be considered to be out of compliance with the exchange minimum price requirement if the company average closing price over a consecutive 30 trading day period ( Average Closing Price ) is less than $100 (the Minimum Price Requirement ). Under NYSE rules, a company that is out of compliance with the Minimum Price Requirement has a cure period of six months to regain compliance if it notifies the NYSE within 10 business days of receiving a deficiency notice of its intention to cure the deficiency. A company may regain compliance if on the last trading day of any calendar month during the cure period the company has a closing share price of at least $100 and an average closing share price of at least $100 over the 30 trading day period ending on the last trading day of that month. If at the expiration of the cure period, both a $100 closing share price on the last trading day of the cure period and a $100 average closing share price over the 30 trading day period ending on the last trading day of the cure period are not attained, the NYSE will commence suspension and delisting procedures. If delisted by the NYSE, a company shares may be transferred to the over the counter ( OTC ) market, a significantly more limited market than the NYSE, which could affect the market price, trading volume, liquidity and resale price of such shares. Securities that trade on the OTC markets also typically experience more volatility compared to securities that trade on a national securities exchange. During the cure period, the company shares would continue to trade on the NYSE, subject to compliance with other continued listing requirements. On December 27, 2019, the Trust received written notification from the NYSE that the Trust was not in compliance with the Minimum Price Requirement. Neither the Trust nor the Trustee has any control over the trading price of the Trust units, and neither the Trust nor the Trustee intends to attempt to cause a reverse split of the Trust units or other action in an effort to affect the trading price of the Trust units. Even if the Trust does regain compliance, it might be unable to maintain compliance, and would again become subject to the NYSE delisting procedures. Production of oil, natural gas and NGL on the Underlying Properties could be materially and adversely affected by severe or unseasonable weather. Production of oil, natural gas and NGL on the Underlying Properties could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include changes in oil viscosity as a result of extremely cold weather conditions; evacuation of personnel and curtailment of operations; weather related damage to facilities, resulting in suspension of operations; inability to deliver materials to worksites; and weather related damage to pipelines and other transportation facilities. Interruptions in production could have a material adverse effect on the Trust financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and could reduce the amount of cash distributions to unitholders. Due to the Trust lack of industry and geographic diversification, adverse developments in the location of the Underlying Properties could adversely impact the Trust financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and reduce its ability to make distributions to the Trust unitholders. The Underlying Properties are being and will be operated for oil, natural gas and NGL production only and are focused exclusively in the Permian Basin in Andrews County, Texas. This concentration could disproportionately expose the Trust interests to operational and regulatory risk in that area. Due to the lack of diversification in industry type and location of the Trust interests, adverse developments in the oil and natural gas market or the area of the Underlying Properties, including, for example, transportation or treatment capacity constraints, curtailment of production or treatment plant closures for scheduled maintenance, could have a significantly greater impact on the Trust financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than if the Royalty Interests were more diversified. The generation of proceeds for distribution by the Trust depends in part on Avalon access to and the operation of gathering, transportation and processing facilities. Limitations in the availability of those facilities could interfere with sales of oil, natural gas and NGL production from the Underlying Properties. The amount of oil, natural gas and NGL that may be produced and sold from any well to which the Underlying Properties relate is subject to (a) curtailment of production in certain circumstances, such as by reason of weather, pump failure, down hole issues or other operating risks common to the production of hydrocarbons, and (b) the availability of adequate transportation services or the curtailment of transportation services, including pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, failure of tendered oil, natural gas and NGL to meet quality specifications of gathering lines or downstream transporters, excessive line pressure which prevents delivery, physical damage to the gathering system or transportation system or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments may vary from a few days to several months. In many cases, Avalon is provided limited notice, if any, as to when production will be curtailed and the duration of such curtailments. If Avalon is forced to reduce production due to such a curtailment or other interruption of transportation services, the revenues of the Trust and the amount of cash distributions to the Trust unitholders would similarly be reduced due to the reduction of proceeds from the sale of production. 20 The Trust is passive in nature and has no voting rights in Avalon, no managerial, contractual or other ability to influence Avalon, and no right to exercise control over the field operations of, or sale of oil, natural gas and NGL from, the Underlying Properties. Neither the Trust nor any Trust unitholder has any voting rights with respect to Avalon and, therefore, has no managerial, contractual or other ability to influence Avalon activities or operations of the Underlying Properties. In addition, some of the Underlying Properties may, in the future, be operated by third parties unrelated to Avalon. Such third party operators may not have the operational expertise of Avalon. Oil and natural gas properties are typically managed pursuant to an operating agreement among the working interest owners in the properties. The typical operating agreement contains procedures whereby the owners of the aggregate working interest in the property designate 1 of the interest owners to be the operator of the property. Under these arrangements, the operator is typically responsible for making all decisions relating to sale of production, compliance with regulatory requirements and other matters that affect the property. The failure of an operator to adequately perform operations could reduce production from the Underlying Properties and cash available for distribution to unitholders. Neither the Trustee nor the Trust unitholders has any contractual or other ability to influence or control the field operations of, sale of oil, natural gas and NGL from, or future development of, the Underlying Properties. The oil, natural gas and NGL reserves estimated to be attributable to the Royalty Interests are depleting assets and production from those reserves will diminish over time. Furthermore, the Trust is precluded from acquiring other oil and natural gas properties or royalty interests to replace the depleting assets and production. The proceeds payable to the Trust from the Royalty Interests are derived from the sale of oil, natural gas and NGLs produced from the Underlying Properties. The oil, natural gas and NGL reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests are depleting assets, which means that the reserves of oil, natural gas and NGL attributable to the Royalty Interests will decline over time as will the quantity of oil, natural gas and NGL produced from the Underlying Properties. Future maintenance of the wells burdened by the Royalty Interests may affect the quantity of proved reserves that can be economically produced from the Underlying Properties. The timing and size of these projects will depend on, among other factors, the market prices of oil, natural gas and NGL. Pursuant to the terms of the Conveyances, Avalon is obligated to operate and maintain the Underlying Properties in good faith and in accordance with the Reasonably Prudent Operator Standard. However, Avalon has no contractual obligation to make capital expenditures on the Underlying Properties in the future. If Avalon does not implement maintenance projects when warranted, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by Avalon or estimated in the Trust reserve report. The Trust Agreement generally limits the Trust business activities to owning the Royalty Interests and activities reasonably related to such ownership, including activities required or permitted by the terms of the Conveyances related to the Royalty Interests. As a result, the Trust is not permitted to acquire other oil and natural gas properties or royalty interests to replace the depleting assets (the Underlying Properties) and production attributable thereto. An increase in the differential between the price realized by Avalon for oil and natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties and the NYMEX or other benchmark price of oil or natural gas could reduce the proceeds to the Trust and therefore the cash distributions by the Trust and the value of Trust units. The prices received for oil and natural gas production usually fall below benchmark prices such as NYMEX. The difference between the price received and the benchmark price is called a differential. The amount of the differential depends on a variety of factors, including discounts based on the quality and location of hydrocarbons produced, Btu content and post production costs, including transportation. These factors can cause differentials to be volatile from period to period. Sellers of production have little or no control over the factors that determine the amount of the differential, and cannot accurately predict differentials for natural gas or crude oil. Increases in the differential between the realized price of oil or natural gas and the benchmark price for oil or natural gas in the area where the Underlying Properties are located (Andrews County, Texas) could reduce the proceeds to the Trust and therefore the cash distributions made by the Trust and the value of the Trust units. Due to the cost of transportation in the Permian Basin (in part caused by a lack of pipeline capacity in certain fields), the differential may fluctuate significantly from period to period. 21 The amount of cash available for distribution by the Trust is reduced by Trust expenses, post production costs and applicable taxes associated with the Royalty Interests. The Royalty Interests and the Trust bear certain costs and expenses that reduce the amount of cash received by or available for distribution by the Trust to the Trust unitholders. These costs and expenses include the following the Trust share of the costs incurred by Avalon to gather, store, compress, transport, process, treat, dehydrate and market the oil, natural gas and NGL (excluding costs of marketing services provided by Avalon); the Trust share of applicable taxes, including property taxes and taxes on the production of oil, natural gas and NGL; the Trust liability for Texas franchise tax; and Trust administrative expenses, including fees paid to the Trustee and the Delaware Trustee, the annual administrative services fee payable to Avalon, tax return and Schedule K 1 preparation and mailing costs, independent auditor fees, registrar and transfer agent fees, and costs associated with compliance with federal securities laws and NYSE listing requirements, including the preparation of annual and quarterly reports to Trust unitholders and current reports announcing the amount of quarterly distributions by the Trust. In addition, the amount of funds available for distribution to Trust unitholders is reduced by the amount of any cash reserves maintained by the Trustee in respect of anticipated future Trust administrative expenses. Commencing with the distribution to unitholders paid in the first quarter of 2019, the Trustee has withheld, and in the future intends to withhold, the greater of $190,000 or 35% of the funds otherwise available for distribution each quarter to gradually increase cash reserves for the payment of future known, anticipated or contingent expenses or liabilities by a total of approximately $2,275,000. In 2019, the Trustee withheld $760,000 from the funds otherwise available for distribution to Trust unitholders. In February 2020, the Trustee withheld approximately $190,000 from the funds otherwise available for distribution. The amount of post production costs, taxes and expenses borne by the Trust may vary materially from quarter to quarter. The extent by which the costs are lower in any quarter will directly decrease revenues received by the Trust from Avalon and such amount will be further decreased by expenses of the Trust. As a result, distributions available to Trust unitholders may vary significantly quarter to quarter. Meanwhile, historical post production costs, taxes and expenses are not indicative of future post production costs, taxes and expenses. The Trust has no hedges in place to protect against the price risk inherent in holding interests in oil and gas, commodities that are frequently characterized by significant price volatility. The Trust and SandRidge were parties to a derivatives agreement that provided the Trust with the economic effect of certain derivative contracts between SandRidge and a third party for production through March 31, 2015. From inception through the termination of the hedging arrangements, the Trust received approximately $47.5 million that it would not have received without the hedging arrangements. The last of the hedging arrangements expired on March 31, 2015. Consequently, Trust unitholders no longer have the benefit of any hedging arrangements, and all production after March 31, 2015 is subject to the price risks inherent in holding interests in oil and natural gas, both commodities that are frequently characterized by significant price volatility. The Trust is administered by a Trustee who cannot be replaced except at a special meeting of Trust unitholders. The business and affairs of the Trust are administered by the Trustee. A Trust unitholder voting rights are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Trust unitholders or for an annual or other periodic re election of the Trustee. The Trust Agreement provides that the Trustee may only be removed and replaced by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Trust units, excluding Trust units held by Avalon (until such time as the total number of Trust units held by Avalon is less than 10% of all issued and outstanding Trust units), voting in person or by proxy at a special meeting of Trust unitholders at which a quorum is present called by either the Trustee or the holders of not less than 10% of the outstanding Trust units. As a result, it may be difficult for Trust unitholders to remove or replace the Trustee without the cooperation of holders of a substantial percentage of the outstanding Trust units. 22 Trust unitholders have limited ability to enforce provisions of the Royalty Interests, and Avalon liability to the Trust is limited. The Trust Agreement permits the Trustee and the Trust to sue Avalon or any other future owner of the Underlying Properties to enforce the terms of the Conveyances creating the Royalty Interests. If the Trustee does not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of the Conveyances, a Trust unitholder recourse would be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the Trustee to compel the Trustee to take specified actions. The Trust Agreement expressly limits a Trust unitholder ability to directly sue Avalon or any other party other than the Trustee. As a result, Trust unitholders will not be able to sue Avalon or any future owner of the Underlying Properties to enforce the Trust rights under the Conveyances. Furthermore, the Conveyances provide that, except as set forth in the Conveyances, Avalon will not be liable to the Trust for the manner in which it performs its duties in operating the Underlying Properties, the wells burdened by the Royalty Interests or the minerals in or under the Underlying Properties as long as it acts in good faith and in accordance with the Reasonably Prudent Operator Standard. Furthermore, the Trust Agreement provides (a) that Avalon (as successors to SandRidge) may exercise their rights and discharge their obligations fully, without hindrance or regard to conflict of interest principles, duty of loyalty principles or other breach of fiduciary duties, all of which defense, claims or assertions are expressly waived by the other parties to the Trust Agreement and the Trust unitholders, (b) neither Avalon nor its affiliates shall be a fiduciary to the Trust or the Trust unitholders, and (c) to the extent that, at law or in equity, Avalon has duties (including fiduciary duties) and liabilities to the Trust and Trust unitholders, such duties and liabilities are eliminated to the fullest extent permitted by law. Courts outside of Delaware may not recognize the limited liability of the Trust unitholders provided under Delaware law. Under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, Trust unitholders are entitled to the same limitation of personal liability extended to stockholders of private corporations for profit under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. However, courts in jurisdictions outside of Delaware may not give effect to such limitation. The sale of Trust units by Avalon could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the Trust units. As of March 10, 2020, Avalon owned 13,125,000 Trust units, all of which are pledged as collateral on Avalon secured revolving line of credit. So long as the line of credit is outstanding, Avalon does not have the right to sell any or all of such Trust units without the prior consent of its lender. In the event Avalon could obtain the permission of its lender to sell Trust units, any such sale could have an adverse impact on the price of the Trust units depending on the number and manner in which the Trust units are sold by Avalon. Avalon could have interests that conflict with the interests of the Trust and Trust unitholders. As a working interest owner in the Underlying Properties, Avalon could have interests that conflict with the interests of the Trust and the Trust unitholders. For example Avalon interests may conflict with those of the Trust and the Trust unitholders in situations involving the maintenance, operation or abandonment of the Underlying Properties. Additionally, Avalon may, consistent with its obligation to act in good faith and in accordance with the Reasonably Prudent Operator Standard, abandon a well that is uneconomic or not generating revenues from production in excess of its operating costs, even though such well is still generating revenue for the Trust unitholders. Avalon may make decisions with respect to expenditures and decisions to allocate resources on projects that adversely affect the Underlying Properties, including reducing expenditures on these properties, which could cause oil, natural gas and NGL production to decline at a faster rate and thereby result in lower cash distributions by the Trust in the future. Avalon may, without the consent or approval of the Trust unitholders, sell all or any part of its retained interest in the Underlying Properties, if the Underlying Properties are sold subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests. Such sale may not be in the best interests of the Trust and Trust unitholders. For example, any purchaser may lack Avalon experience in the Permian Basin or its credi2rthiness. Avalon may, without the consent or approval of the Trust unitholders, require the Trust to release Royalty Interests with an aggregate value of up to $5.0 million during any 12 month period in connection with a sale by Avalon of a portion of its retained interest in the Underlying Properties. The value received by the Trust for such Royalty Interests may not fully compensate the Trust for the value of future production attributable to the Royalty Interests burdening such Underlying Properties. Avalon is permitted under the Conveyances creating the Royalty Interests to enter into new processing and transportation contracts without obtaining bids from or otherwise negotiating with any independent third parties, and Avalon will deduct from the Trust proceeds any charges under such contracts attributable to production from the Underlying Properties. 23 Avalon can sell its Trust units regardless of the effects such sale may have on the market price of Trust units or on the Trust itself. Additionally, Avalon can vote its Trust units in its sole discretion. In addition, Avalon has agreed that, if at any time the Trust cash on hand (including available cash reserves) is not sufficient to pay the Trust ordinary course administrative expenses as they become due, Avalon will, at the Trustee request, loan funds to the Trust necessary to pay such expenses. Any such loan will be on an unsecured basis, and the terms of such loan will be substantially the same as those which would be obtained in an arms length transaction between Avalon and an unaffiliated third party. If Avalon provides such funds to the Trust, it would become a creditor of the Trust and its interests as a creditor could conflict with the interests of unitholders since it is entitled to receive a return of the principal amount of such loan and interest earned thereon prior to any further distributions to the Trust unitholders. Avalon may sell all or a portion of the Underlying Properties, subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests; any such purchaser could have a weaker financial position and or be less experienced in oil and natural gas development and production than Avalon. Trust unitholders will not be entitled to vote on any sale of the Underlying Properties if the Underlying Properties are sold subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests, and the Trust will not receive any proceeds from any such sale. The purchaser would be responsible for all of Avalon obligations relating to the Royalty Interests on the portion of the Underlying Properties sold, and Avalon would have no continuing obligation to the Trust for those properties. Additionally, Avalon may enter into farmout or joint venture arrangements with respect to the wells burdened by the Royalty Interests. Any purchaser, farmout counterparty or joint venture partner could have a weaker financial position, or could be less experienced in oil and natural gas development and production than Avalon, or both. The value of the Royalty Interests is highly dependent on the performance and financial condition of Avalon. As of November 1, 2018, Avalon is the operator of all wells burdened by the Royalty Interests. The Conveyances provide that Avalon is obligated to market, or cause to be marketed, the oil, natural gas and NGL produced by such wells (to the extent such wells are capable of producing marketable hydrocarbons in paying quantities) from the Underlying Properties. If Avalon were to default on its obligation, the cash distributions to the Trust unitholders may be materially reduced. The Trust is highly dependent on its Trustor, Avalon, for multiple services, including the operation of the Trust wells, remittance of net proceeds from the sale of associated production to the Trust, administrative services such as accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping and informational services performed on behalf of the Trust. Due to the Trust reliance on Avalon to fulfill these obligations, the value of the Royalty Interests and its ultimate cash available for distribution is highly dependent on Avalon performance. If the reduced demand for crude oil in the global market resulting from the economic effects of the coronavirus pandemic and the recent reduction in the benchmark price of crude oil persist for the near term or longer, such factor are likely to have a negative impact on Avalon financial condition. This negative impact could affect Avalon ability to operate the wells and provide services to the Trust. The bankruptcy of operators could impede the operation of wells. The value of the Royalty Interests and the Trust ultimate cash available for distribution is highly dependent on the financial condition of the operator of the wells. Avalon has not agreed with the Trust to maintain a certain net worth or to be restricted by other similar covenants. The ability to operate the Underlying Properties depends on an operators future financial condition, economic performance and access to capital, which in turn will depend upon the supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGL, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of such operators. In the event of any future bankruptcy of Avalon or any other future operator of the Underlying Properties, the value of the Royalty Interests could be adversely affected by, among other things, delay or cessation of payments under the Royalty Interests, business disruptions or cessation of operations by the operator, replacements of operators, inability to find a replacement operator where necessary, reduced production of petroleum reserves. Any of such events would likely result in decreased distributions to Trust unitholders. Oil and natural gas wells are subject to operational hazards that can cause substantial losses. Avalon maintains insurance but may not be adequately insured for all such hazards. There are a variety of operating risks inherent in oil, natural gas and NGL production and associated activities, such as fires, leaks, explosions, mechanical problems, major equipment failures, uncontrollable flow of oil, natural gas, NGL, water or drilling fluids, casing collapses, abnormally pressurized formations and natural disasters. The occurrence of any of these or similar accidents that temporarily or permanently halt the production and sale of oil, natural gas and NGL at any of the Underlying Properties will reduce Trust distributions by reducing the amount of proceeds available for distribution. 24 Additionally, if any of such risks or similar accidents occur, Avalon could incur substantial losses as a result of injury or loss of life, severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, regulatory investigation and penalties and environmental damage and clean up responsibilities. If Avalon were to experience any of these problems, its ability to conduct operations and perform its obligations to the Trust could be adversely affected. Although Avalon maintains insurance coverage it deems appropriate for these risks with respect to the Underlying Properties, Avalon operations may result in liabilities exceeding such insurance coverage or liabilities not covered by insurance. If a well is damaged, Avalon would have no obligation to drill a replacement well or make the Trust whole for the loss. The Trust does not maintain any type of insurance against any of the risks of conducting oil and gas exploration and production and related activities. The operation of the Underlying Properties is subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner and feasibility of conducting operations on the properties, which in turn could negatively impact Trust distributions. Oil, natural gas and NGL production, transportation and treatment operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, numerous permits, approvals and certificates are required from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. Compliance with these existing laws and regulations may require the incurrence of substantial costs by Avalon or other future operators of the Underlying Properties. Additionally, there has been a variety of regulatory initiatives at the federal and state levels to further regulate oil and natural gas operations in certain locations. Any increased regulation or suspension of oil and natural gas operations, or revision or reinterpretation of existing laws and regulation, could result in delays and higher operating costs. Such costs or significant delays could have a material adverse effect on the operation of the Underlying Properties, which in turn could negatively impact Trust distributions. Laws and regulations governing oil and natural gas exploration and production may also affect production levels. Avalon is required to comply with federal and state laws and regulations governing conservation matters, including (i) provisions related to the unitization or pooling of the oil and natural gas properties; (ii) the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells; (iii) the spacing of wells; and (iv) the plugging and abandonment of wells. These and other laws and regulations can limit the amount of oil, natural gas and NGL Avalon can produce from the wells which it owns and operates, including those wells burdened by the Royalty Interests, which in turn could negatively impact Trust distributions. New laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations may unfavorably impact Avalon, could result in increased operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on Avalon financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, federal and state regulatory authorities may expand or alter applicable pipeline safety laws and regulations, compliance with which may require increased capital expenditures by Avalon and third party downstream oil, natural gas and NGL transporters. These and other potential regulations could increase Avalon operating costs, reduce Avalon liquidity, delay Avalon operations, increase direct and third party post production costs associated with the Trust interests or otherwise alter the way Avalon conducts its business, which could have a material adverse effect on Avalon financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and which could reduce cash received by or available for distribution, including any amounts paid by Avalon for transportation on downstream interstate pipelines. Please see the section titled Regulation under Item 1 Business above for a more complete discussion of applicable federal and state laws impacting the Underlying Properties and their operation. Should Avalon fail to comply with all applicable statutes, rules, regulations and orders of FERC or the FTC, Avalon could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and implementing regulations, FERC prohibits market manipulation in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas. The FTC also prohibits manipulative or fraudulent conduct in the wholesale petroleum market with respect to sales of commodities, including crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids. These agencies have substantial enforcement authority, including the ability to impose penalties for current violations in excess of $1 million per day for each violation. FERC has also imposed requirements related to reporting of natural gas sales volumes that may impact the formation of prices indices. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these and other matters may be considered or adopted from time to time. Failure to comply with these or other laws and regulations administered by these agencies could subject Avalon to criminal and civil penalties, as described in Item 1 under Regulation Oil and Natural Gas Regulations above. The operation of the Underlying Properties is subject to environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting operations or result in significant costs and liabilities. The oil, natural gas and NGL production operations on the Underlying Properties are subject to stringent and complex federal, state, regional and local laws and regulations governing worker safety and health, the discharge and disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in litigation; the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory, remedial or corrective action obligations; the occurrence of delays or restrictions in permitting or performance of projects; and the issuance of orders and injunctions limiting or preventing some or all operations relating to the Underlying Properties in affected areas. 25 Under certain environmental laws and regulations, an owner or operator of the Underlying Properties could be subject to joint and several liability for the investigation, removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination, regardless of whether the owner or operator was responsible for such release or contamination or whether the operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the release or contamination occurred. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which wells are drilled or facilities where petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, to seek damages for contamination, or for personal injury or property damage. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in delays or restrictions in permitting or development of projects or more stringent or costly construction, drilling, water management, or completion activities or waste handling, storage, transport, remediation or disposal, emission or discharge requirements could require significant expenditures by Avalon to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, competitive position or financial condition of Avalon. In addition, delays or restrictions in permitting or development of projects that reduce or temporarily or permanently halt the production of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids at any of the Underlying Properties will reduce Trust distributions by reducing the amount of proceeds available for distribution. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating costs with respect to the Underlying Properties. In 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and certain other greenhouse gases (collectively, GHGs ) present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. The EPA has taken a number of steps aimed at gathering information about, and reducing the emissions of, GHGs from industrial sources, including oil and natural gas sources. The EPA has adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from oil, natural gas and NGL production and processing facilities on an annual basis, as well as reporting GHG emissions from gathering and boosting systems, oil well completions and workovers using hydraulic fracturing, as well as rules. adopting New Source Performance Standards ( NSPS ) for new, modified, or reconstructed oil and gas facilities that require control of the GHG methane from affected facilities, including requirements to find and repair fugitive leaks of methane emissions at well sites ( Methane Rule ). Following the 2016 presidential election and change in administrations, in 2017 the EPA proposed to delay implementation of the Methane Rule, and also convened a reconsideration proceeding that resulted in 2 2018 rulemaking projects aimed at rolling back certain Methane Rule requirements. In 2019, the EPA proposed to eliminate the obligation to control methane emissions under the NSPS, while maintaining the rule substantive emissions control requirements because they serve to control emissions of other, non methane pollutants. These actions, like the Methane Rule itself, have been (or are likely to be) challenged in courts. The ultimate fate of the Methane Rule requirements is unclear. Nevertheless, regulations promulgated under the CAA may require Avalon to incur development expenses to install and utilize specific equipment, technologies, or work practices to control emissions from its operations. A number of state and regional efforts also are aimed at tracking and or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. On an international level, the United States is 1 of almost 200 nations that in December 2015 entered into the Paris Agreement, which calls for countries to set their own GHG emissions targets and maintain transparency regarding the measures each country will use to achieve its GHG emissions targets. However, the Paris Agreement does not impose any binding obligations on the United States. Moreover, in June 2017, President Trump announced that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement but may enter into a future international agreement related to GHGs. In August 2017, the U.S. State Department officially informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement and such withdrawal has been finalized. Further, several states and local governments remain committed to the principles of the Paris Agreement in their effectuation of policy and regulations. It is not possible at this time to predict how or when the United States might impose restrictions on GHGs as a result of the Paris Agreement. For a more detailed discussion of applicable federal and state laws regarding air emission and climate change regulation, please see the section titled Regulation Air Emissions and Climate Change under Item 1 Business above. The adoption and implementation of any laws or regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, the equipment and operations of Avalon or other operators of the Underlying Properties could require additional expenditures to monitor, report and potentially reduce emissions of GHGs associated with their operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil, natural gas and NGL produced from the Underlying Properties. Recently, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for exploration and production activities. Notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040, and that oil and gas will continue to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time. Finally, to the extent increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that could have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events, such events could have a material adverse effect on the Underlying Properties, and potentially subject the Underlying Properties and the operations of Avalon or other operators of the Underlying Properties to greater regulation. The occurrence of any of these events that reduce or temporarily or permanently halt the production of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids at any of the Underlying Properties will reduce Trust distributions by reducing the amount of proceeds available for distribution. 26 The Trust is subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, which may impose cost and operating challenges on it. The Trust is subject to certain of the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 which requires, among other things, maintenance by the Trust of, and reports regarding the effectiveness of, a system of internal control over financial reporting. Complying with these requirements may pose operational challenges and may cause the Trust to incur unanticipated expenses. Any failure by the Trust to comply with these requirements could lead to a loss of public confidence in the Trust internal controls and in the accuracy of the Trust publicly reported results. Cyber attacks or other failures in telecommunications or IT systems could result in information theft, data corruption and significant disruption of Avalon business operations. Avalon relies on information technology ( IT ) systems and ne2rks in connection with its business activities, including certain of its development and production activities. Avalon relies on digital technology, including information systems and related infrastructure, as well as cloud applications and services, to, among other things, estimate quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves, analyze seismic and drilling information, process and record financial and operating data and communicate with employees and third parties. As dependence on digital technologies has increased in the oil and gas industry, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks and attempts to gain unauthorized access to computer systems and ne2rks, have increased in frequency and sophistication. These threats pose a risk to the security of Avalon systems and ne2rks, the confidentiality, availability and integrity of its data and the physical security of its employees and assets. Avalon has not experienced any attempts by hackers and other third parties to gain unauthorized access to its IT systems and ne2rks. However, if any such attempt were to occur, there is no assurance that Avalon would be successful in preventing a cyber attack or adequately mitigating the effect of such cyber attack. Any cyber attack could have a material adverse effect on Avalon reputation, competitive position, business, financial condition and results of operations, and could have a material adverse effect on the Trust. Cyber attacks or security breaches also could result in litigation or regulatory action, as well as significant additional expense to Avalon to implement further data protection measures. In addition to the risks presented to Avalon systems and ne2rks, cyber attacks affecting oil and natural gas distribution systems maintained by third parties, or the ne2rks and infrastructure on which they rely, could delay or prevent delivery to markets. A cyber attack of this nature would be outside Avalon ability to control but could have a material adverse effect on Avalon business, financial condition and results of operations, and could have a material adverse effect on the Trust. Cyber attacks or other failures in telecommunications or IT systems could result in information theft, data corruption and significant disruption of the Trustee operations. The Trustee depends heavily upon IT systems and ne2rks in connection with its business activities. Despite a variety of security measures implemented by the Trustee, events such as the loss or theft of back up tapes or other data storage media could occur, and the Trustee computer systems could be subject to physical and electronic break ins, cyber attacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering, including threats that may come from external factors, such as governments, organized crime, hackers and third parties to whom certain functions are outsourced, or may originate internally from within the respective companies. If a cyber attack were to occur, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, the Trustee computer systems and ne2rks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in the operations of the Trust, which could result in litigation, increased costs and regulatory penalties. Although steps are taken to prevent and detect such attacks, it is possible that a cyber incident will not be discovered for some time after it occurs, which could increase exposure to these consequences. Legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity are restricting and could further restrict Avalon ability and the ability of other operators of the Underlying Properties to dispose of waste water produced alongside hydrocarbons. Large volumes of waste water produced alongside Avalon and other operators oil, natural gas and NGL on the Underlying Properties in connection with drilling and production operations are disposed of pursuant to permits issued by governmental authorities overseeing such disposal activities. While these permits are issued pursuant to existing laws and regulations, these legal requirements are subject to change, which could result in the imposition of more stringent operating constraints or new monitoring and reporting requirements, owing to, among other things, concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such gathering or disposal activities. 27 Furthermore, in response to recent seismic events near underground disposal wells used for the disposal by injection of produced water resulting from oil and natural gas activities, federal and some state agencies are investigating whether such wells have caused increased seismic activity, and some states have restricted, suspended or shut down the use of such disposal wells. For example, in October 2014, the Texas Railroad Commission, or TRC, published a new rule governing permitting or re permitting of disposal wells that would require, among other things, the submission of information on seismic events occurring within a specified radius of the disposal well location, as well as logs, geologic cross sections and structure maps relating to the disposal area in question. If the permittee or an applicant of a disposal well permit fails to demonstrate that the saltwater or other fluids are confined to the disposal z1 or if scientific data indicates such a disposal well is likely to be or determined to be contributing to seismic activity, then the TRC may deny, modify, suspend or terminate the permit application or existing operating permit for that well. Evaluation of seismic incidents and whether or to what extent those events are induced by the injection of saltwater into disposal wells continues to evolve, as governmental authorities consider new and or past seismic incidents in areas where salt water disposal activities occur or are proposed to be performed. The adoption of any new laws, regulations, or directives that restrict Avalon ability to dispose of saltwater generated by production and development activities on the Underlying Properties, whether by plugging back the depths of disposal wells, reducing the volume of salt water disposed in such wells, restricting disposal well locations or otherwise, or by requiring Avalon to shut down disposal wells, which could negatively affect the economic lives of the Underlying Properties and have a material adverse effect on the Trust. Tax Risks Related to the Trust Units The Trust tax treatment depends on its status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) were to treat the Trust as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then its cash available for distribution to its unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after tax economic benefit of an investment in the Trust units depends largely on the Trust being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Trust has not requested, and does not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS, on this or any other tax matter affecting it. It is possible in certain circumstances for a publicly traded trust otherwise treated as a partnership, such as the Trust, to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, a change in current law could cause the Trust to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject it to federal taxation as an entity. If the Trust were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it would pay federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which after December 31, 2017 is a maximum of 21%, and likely would be required to also pay state income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate of such state. Distributions to Trust unitholders generally would be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to unitholders. Because additional tax would be imposed upon the Trust as a corporation, its cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of the Trust as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after tax return to the Trust unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the Trust units. If the Trust were subjected to a material amount of additional entity level taxation by individual states, it would reduce the Trust cash available for distribution to unitholders. The Trust is required to pay Texas franchise tax each year at a maximum effective rate (subject to changes in the statutory rate) of 0.525% of its gross income. This rate of tax is subject to change by new legislation at any time. Changes in current Texas state law may subject the Trust to additional entity level taxation. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, Texas is evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state franchise and other forms of taxation. Additional imposition of such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders and, therefore, negatively impact the value of an investment in Trust units. Upon examination, the state of Texas may contest any of the tax positions the Trust has taken. Audit adjustments to an entity level state tax, such as Texas franchise tax (including any applicable penalties and interest), are collected directly from the Trust upon completion of the examination. Tax legislation enacted in 2017 may have a significant impact on the taxation of the Trust and Trust unitholders. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ( TCJA ) enacted in December 2017 provides the most substantial tax reform in over thirty years. In general, the TCJA lowers tax rates, eliminates or limits numerous deductions and other tax benefits, and significantly changes international tax rules. Given the complexity of the TCJA and the significant changes to prior tax law, and the significant amount of regulations that the Treasury Department and the IRS have yet to issue, propose and finalize to interpret and implement TCJA changes, the impact and effect of the legislation on the Trust and Trust unitholders in respect of income and loss of the Trust remains uncertain. 28 The foregoing is not a complete summary of all of the changes in law that may apply to or impact the Trust or a unitholder with respect to income of the Trust (or otherwise), unitholders strongly are urged to consult with their own tax advisors to determine how they might be affected by the TCJA, both generally and specifically with respect to their ownership of trust units. The tax treatment of an investment in Trust units could be affected by potential legislative changes, possibly on a retroactive basis. Current law may change so as to cause the Trust to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject the Trust to entity level taxation. Specifically, the present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including the Trust, or an investment in the Trust units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, from time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to existing federal income tax laws that could affect publicly traded partnerships. Such proposals, if adopted, could eliminate the qualifying income exception for publicly traded partnerships deriving qualifying income from activities relating to fossil fuels thus treating such partnerships as corporations. We currently rely upon this qualifying income exemption for our treatment of the Trust as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals ultimately will be enacted. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on the value of the Trust units. The Trust has adopted and may continue to adopt positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. If the IRS contests the tax positions the Trust takes, the value of the Trust units may be adversely affected, the cost of any IRS contest will reduce the Trust cash available for distribution and income, gains, losses and deductions may be reallocated among Trust unitholders. The TCJA alters the procedures for assessing and collecting income taxes due for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, in a manner that could substantially reduce cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders. If the IRS contests any of the U.S. federal income tax positions the Trust takes or has taken, the value of the Trust units may be adversely affected, because the cost of any IRS contest will reduce the Trust cash available for distribution and income, gain, loss and deduction may be reallocated among Trust unitholders. For example, the Trust generally prorates its Item of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Trust units each quarter based upon the record ownership of the Trust units on the quarterly record date in such quarter, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Trust unit is transferred. Although simplifying conventions are contemplated by the Internal Revenue Code, and most publicly traded partnerships use similar simplifying conventions, the use of these methods may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and, accordingly, Avalon counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to challenge the Trust proration method, the Trust may be required to change its allocation of Item of income, gain, loss and deduction among the Trust unitholders and the costs to the Trust of implementing and reporting under any such changed method may be significant. The Trust has not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to its treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes or any other tax matter affecting the Trust. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of Avalon counsel or from the positions the Trust takes. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to attempt to sustain some or all of the conclusions of Avalon counsel or the positions the Trust takes. A court may not agree with some or all of the conclusions of Avalon counsel or positions the Trust takes. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for the Trust units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the Trust costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by the Trust unitholders, because the costs will reduce the Trust cash available for distribution. The TCJA enacted in 2017 and applicable to the Trust for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, alters the procedures for auditing large partnerships and also alters the procedures for assessing and collecting income taxes due (including applicable penalties and interest) as a result of an audit. Unless the Trust is eligible to (and chooses to) elect to issue revised Schedules K 1 to Trust unitholders with respect to an audited and adjusted return, the IRS may assess and collect income taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from the Trust in the year in which the audit is completed under the new rules, which effectively would impose an entity level tax on the Trust. If the Trust is required to pay income taxes, penalties and interest as the result of audit adjustments, cash available for distribution to Trust unitholders may be substantially reduced. In addition, because payment would be due for the taxable year in which the audit is completed, Trust unitholders during that taxable year would bear the expense of the adjustment even if they were not Trust unitholders during the audited taxable year. 29 Each Trust unitholder is required to pay taxes on the unitholder share of the Trust income even if the unitholder does not receive cash distributions from the Trust equal to the unitholder share of the Trust taxable income. Because the Trust unitholders are treated as partners to whom the Trust allocates taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash the Trust distributes, each unitholder may be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on the unitholder share of the Trust taxable income even if the unitholder does not receive cash distributions from the Trust equal to the unitholder share of the Trust taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of the Trust units could be more or less than expected. If a Trust unitholder sells its Trust units, such unitholder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the unitholder tax basis in those Trust units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder allocable share of the Trust net taxable income decrease the unitholder adjusted tax basis in its Trust units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the Trust units sold by a unitholder will, in effect, become taxable income to such unitholder if the unitholder sells such Trust units at a price greater than the unitholder tax basis in those Trust units, even if the price the unitholder receives is less than the unitholder original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture Item, including depletion recapture. The ownership and disposition of Trust units by tax exempt organizations and non U.S. persons may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Tax Exempt Organizations. Employee benefit plans and most other organizations exempt from U.S. federal income tax including individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and other retirement plans are subject to U.S. federal income tax on unrelated business taxable income . Because all of the income of the Trust is royalty income, interest income, and gain from the sale of real property, n1 of which is expected to be unrelated business taxable income, any such organization exempt from U.S. federal income tax is not expected to be taxed on income generated by ownership of Trust units so long as neither the property held by the Trust nor the Trust units are debt financed property within the meaning of Section 514(b) of the Internal Revenue Code ( IRC ). However, such investors should consult their own tax advisors as to the treatment of income from the Trust. Non U.S. Persons. Pursuant to Section 1446 of the IRC, withholding tax on income effectively connected to a United States trade or business allocated to non U.S. persons ( ECI ) should be made at the highest marginal rate. Under Section 1441 of the IRC, withholding tax on fixed, determinable, annual, periodic income from United States sources allocated to non U.S. persons should be made at 30% of gross income unless the rate is reduced by treaty. Nominees and brokers should withhold at the highest marginal rate on the distribution made to non U.S. persons. The TCJA, discussed above, treats a non U.S. holder gain on the sale of Trust units as ECI to the extent such holder would have had ECI if the Trust had sold all of its assets at fair market value on the date of the sale of such Trust units. The TCJA also requires the transferee of Trust units to withhold 10% of the amount realized on the sale or exchange of such units (generally, the purchase price) unless the transferor certifies that it is not a non resident alien individual or foreign corporation. Pending the finalization of proposed regulations under Section 1446 of the IRC, the IRS has suspended this new withholding obligation with respect to publicly traded partnerships such as the Trust, which is classified as a partnership for federal and state income tax purposes. The Trust treats each purchaser of Trust units as having the same economic attributes without regard to the actual Trust units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Trust units. Due to a number of factors, including the Trust inability to match transferors and transferees of Trust units, the Trust may adopt positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely alter the tax effects of an investment in Trust units. It also could affect the timing of tax benefits or the amount of gain from a unitholder sale of Trust units and could have a negative impact on the value of the Trust units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder tax returns. The Trust prorates its Item of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Trust units each quarter based upon the record ownership of the Trust units on the quarterly record date, in such quarter, instead of on the basis of the date a particular Trust unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of Item of income, gain, loss and deduction among the Trust unitholders. The Trust generally prorates its Item of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of the Trust units based upon the record ownership of the Trust units on the quarterly record date in such quarter instead of on the basis of the date a particular Trust unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations, and, accordingly, the Trust counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to challenge the Trust proration method, the Trust may be required to change its allocation of Item of income, gain, loss and deduction among the Trust unitholders and the costs to the Trust of implementing and reporting under any such changed method may be significant. 30 A Trust unitholder whose Trust units are loaned to a short seller to cover a short sale of Trust units may be considered as having disposed of those Trust units. If so, such unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner (for tax purposes) with respect to those Trust units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a Trust unitholder whose Trust units are loaned to a short seller to cover a short sale of Trust units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned Trust units, he or she may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those Trust units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of the Trust income, gains, losses or deductions with respect to those Trust units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those Trust units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Trust unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners (for tax purposes) and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their Trust units. The Trust may adopt certain valuation methodologies that may affect the income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to the Trust unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the Trust units. The U.S. federal income tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of Trust units will depend in part on the Trust estimates of the relative fair market values, and the initial tax basis of the Trust assets. Although the Trust may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, the Trust will make many of the relative fair market value estimates itself. These estimates and determinations of basis are subject to challenge and will not be binding on the IRS or the courts. If the estimates of fair market value or basis are later found to be incorrect, the character and amount of Item of income, gain, loss or deductions previously reported by Trust unitholders might change, and Trust unitholders might be required to adjust their tax liability for prior years and incur interest and penalties with respect to those adjustments. The availability and extent of percentage depletion deductions to the Trust unitholders for any taxable year is uncertain. The payments received by the Trust with respect to the perpetual portion of the Royalty Interests are treated as mineral royalty interests for U.S. federal income tax purposes and taxable as ordinary income. Trust unitholders are entitled to deductions for the greater of either cost depletion or (if otherwise allowable) percentage depletion with respect to such income. Although the Internal Revenue Code requires each Trust unitholder to compute his own depletion allowance and maintain records of his share of the adjusted tax basis of the underlying royalty interest for depletion and other purposes, the Trust will furnish each of the Trust unitholders with information relating to this computation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Each Trust unitholder, however, remains responsible for calculating his own depletion allowance and maintaining records of his share of the adjusted tax basis of the perpetual royalties for depletion and other purposes. The rules with respect to this depletion allowance are complex and must be computed separately by each Trust unitholder and not by the Trust for each oil or natural gas property. As a result, the availability or extent of percentage depletion deductions to the Trust unitholders for any taxable year is uncertain. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments N1 Item 2 Item 2 Properties
