CIK: 1537028
Company Name: INDEPENDENCE CONTRACT DRILLING INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2020-03-02
Accession Number: 0001537028-20-000057


ITEM 1 BUSINESS Overview Except as expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, the terms we, us, our, the Company and ICD refer to Independence Contract Drilling, Inc. and its subsidiary. We provide land based contract drilling services for oil and natural gas producers targeting unconventional resource plays in the United States. We own and operate a premium fleet comprised of modern, technologically advanced drilling rigs. Our rig fleet includes 29 marketed AC powered ( AC ) rigs and a number of additional rigs requiring conversions or upgrades in order to meet our AC pad optimal specifications. We do not intend to complete these conversions or upgrades until market conditions improve. We currently focus our operations on unconventional resource plays located in geographic regions that we can efficiently support from our Houston, Texas and Midland, Texas facilities in order to maximize economies of scale. Currently, our rigs are operating in the Permian Basin, the Haynesville Shale and the Eagle Ford Shale; however, our rigs have previously operated in the Mid Continent and Eaglebine regions as well. Our business depends on the level of exploration and production activity by oil and natural gas companies operating in the United States, and in particular, the regions where we actively market our contract drilling services. The oil and natural gas exploration and production industry is historically cyclical and characterized by significant changes in the levels of exploration and development activities. Oil and natural gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in those prices significantly affect the levels of those activities. Worldwide political, regulatory, economic and military events, as well as natural disasters have contributed to oil and natural gas price volatility historically, and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Any prolonged reduction in the overall level of exploration and development activities in the United States and the regions where we market our contract drilling services, whether resulting from changes in oil and natural gas prices or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our business. Our principal executive offices are located at 20475 Hwy 249, Houston, Texas 77070. Our common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol ICD. Industry Trends Land Rig Replacement Cycle The increase in horizontal drilling in the United States over the past fifteen years has resulted in an ongoing land rig replacement cycle in which the contract drilling industry is systematically upgrading its legacy fleets of electrical silicon controlled rectifier ( SCR ) rigs and mechanical rigs with modern AC rigs that are specifically designed to optimize this type of drilling activity. Additionally, a growing focus on horizontal drilling of longer reach lateral wells from multi well pads is driving a further delineation in the United States land rig fleet between pad optimal rigs specifically designed and engineered for such applications and AC and legacy rigs not specifically engineered for such applications. The following describes the 3 different types of rig drives Mechanical Rigs . Mechanical rigs were not designed and are not well suited for the demanding requirements of drilling horizontal wells. A mechanical rig powers its systems through a combination of belts, chains and transmissions. This arrangement requires the rig to be rigged up with precise alignment of the belts and chains, which requires substantial time during a rig move. In addition, mechanical power loading of key rig systems, including drawworks, pumps and rotating equipment results in very imprecise control of system parameters, causing lower drill bit life, lower rate of penetration and difficulty maintaining wellbore trajectory. SCR Rigs . In contrast to mechanical rigs, SCR rigs rely on direct current, or DC, to power the key rig systems. Load is changed by adjusting the amperage supplied to electric motors powering key rig systems. While a substantial improvement over mechanical belts and chains, SCR control is imprecise, and DC power levels normally drift resulting in fluctuations in pump speed and pressure, bit rotation speed, and weight on bit. These fluctuations can cause wellbore deviation, shorter bit life and less optimal rates of penetration. In addition, SCR equipment is heavy and energy inefficient. AC Rigs . Compared to SCR and mechanical rigs, AC rigs are ideally suited for drilling horizontal wells. The first AC rigs were introduced into the United States land market in the early 2000s, and since that time their use has grown significantly 4 as the use of horizontal drilling has increased. AC rigs use a computer controlled variable frequency drive ("VFD") to precisely adjust key rig operating parameters and systems allowing for optimization of the rate of penetration, extended bit life and improved control of wellbore trajectory. These factors reduce the amount of time a wellbore is open hole, or uncased. Shorter open hole times dramatically reduce adjacent formation damage that can be caused by shale hydration or drilling fluid invasion and enhance the operator ability to optimally run and cement casing to complete the drilled well. In addition, when compared to SCR and mechanical rigs, AC rigs are electrically more efficient, produce more torque, utilize regenerative braking, and have digital controls. AC motors are also smaller, lighter and require less maintenance than DC motors. Shift to Manufacturing Wellbore Model As a result of significant investments made in unconventional resource plays, exploration and production ("E&P") companies are now focused on developing these investments in a systematic manner. Efficient development of these resource plays involves drilling programs requiring large numbers of wells to be drilled in succession, as opposed to a single or a few wells designed to delineate a field or hold a lease. We view this as analogous to a manufacturing process that requires an engineered program and is focused on economies of scale to reduce overall field development costs. Cost effective development drilling requires more complex well designs, shorter cycle times, and the use of innovative technology in order to reduce an E&P company overall field development costs. 1 method in which an E&P operator may reduce overall field development costs is through the use of a multi well pad development program. Pad drilling involves the drilling of multiple wells from a single location, which provides benefits to the E&P company in the form of per well cost savings and accelerated cash flows as compared to non pad developments. These cost savings result from reduced time required to move the rig between wells, centralized hydraulic fracturing operations and the efficient installation of central production facilities and pipelines. In addition, by performing drilling operations on 1 well with simultaneous completion operations on a second well, operators do not have to wait until the entire pad is complete to begin earning a return on their investment. Pad drilling promotes manufacturing efficiencies by enabling batch drilling, whereby an operator drills all of the wells surface holes as the first batch, then drills all of the intermediate sections as the second batch, and concludes with the drilling of all of the laterals as the final batch. Efficiencies are created because hole sizes change less frequently, and operators use the same mud system and tools repeatedly. We believe as operators have shifted over time to horizontal drilling, they have implemented pad drilling in order to maximize economics and optimize development plans. In order to maximize the efficiencies gained from pad drilling, a rig must be capable of moving quickly from 1 well to another and be able to address the complexities associated with the growing number of wells per pad. In addition to quickly moving from well to well, omni directional walking systems are ideally suited for pad drilling because they are capable of efficiently addressing situations on a pad in which wellbores are not precisely aligned or when level variations exist on the pad, which becomes increasingly likely as pads become larger and more complex. Another method utilized by operators to increase efficiencies and maximize well economics is the drilling of longer lateral horizontal wells. Operators in our target areas have continued to increase the lateral length of their horizontal wells. Longer laterals provide greater production z1s as the portion of the wellbore that passes through the target formation increases, optimizing the impact of hydraulic fracturing and stimulation. The drilling of longer laterals necessitates the use of increased horsepower drawworks and top drive systems, which provide maximum torque and rotational control and allows the operator to maintain the integrity of its drilling plan throughout the wellbore. Additionally, higher pressure mud pumps are required to pump fluids through significantly longer wellbores. The competitive advantage of higher pressure mud pumps grows as the lateral length increases, as only high pressure pumps can effectively address the severe pressure drop, while providing the required hydraulic horsepower at the bit face and sufficient flow to remove drill cuttings and keep the hole clean. Pad Optimal Equipment Cost effective development drilling in a manufacturing wellbore model requires more complex well designs, shorter cycle times, and the use of innovative technology in order to reduce an E&P company overall field development costs. Drilling rigs that are designed to maximize drilling efficiency, reduce cycle times, maximize energy efficiency, increase penetration rates while drilling, and drill longer reach horizontal wells will reduce an E&P company overall field development costs and provide them with greater optionality when designing their field development program. We believe that E&P companies drilling horizontal wells increasingly demand not only AC rigs that are optimal for horizontal drilling, but premium AC rigs such as our ShaleDriller rigs that are "pad optimal" including the following minimum equipment and design features AC Programmable . AC rigs use a variable frequency drive that allows precise computer control of motor speed during operations. This greater control of motor speed provides more precise drilling of the wellbore. Among other attributes, when compared to electrical SCR rigs and mechanical rigs, AC rigs are electrically more efficient, produce consistent torque, utilize regenerative braking, and have digital controls and AC motors that require less maintenance. AC rigs 5 allow our customers to drill faster, which, in general, eliminates reservoir permeability damage, and to drill wellbores that more precisely track planned trajectories without doglegs. This, in turn, minimizes open hole time and enables our customers to more effectively and efficiently run casing, cement and successfully complete their wells. Pad Optimized, Omni Directional Walking System . Omni directional walking systems are designed to optimize pad drilling economics for our customers. Pad drilling involves the drilling of multiple wells from a single location, which provides benefits to the E&P company in the form of cost savings and accelerated cash flows. Our walking rigs move in any direction quickly between wellheads, rapidly and efficiently adjust to misaligned wellbores, walk over raised wellheads, and increase operational safety due to fewer required rig up and rig down movements. Efficient Mobilization Between Drilling Sites . A rig that can rapidly move between drilling sites has become increasingly desired by, and impactful to, E&P companies because it reduces cycle times allowing them to drill more wells in the same period of time. Our ShaleDriller rigs move rapidly on conventional rig moves between drilling sites. 1500 HP Drawworks . 1500 HP drawworks are well suited for the development of the vast majority of our customers unconventional resource assets. Compared to a 1000 HP or smaller rig, a 1500 HP rig has superior capability to handle extended drill string lengths required to drill long horizontal wells, which are becoming more common in the markets we serve. Our 29 marketed rigs include 28 1500 HP rigs and 1 1000 HP rig. 7500psi Mud Systems . The drilling of longer laterals necessitates the use of higher pressure mud pumps to pump fluids through significantly longer wellbores. The competitive advantage of higher pressure mud pumps grows as the lateral length gets longer, as only high pressure pumps can effectively address the severe pressure drop while providing the required hydraulic horsepower at the bit face and sufficient flow to remove drill cuttings and keep the hole clean. All ShaleDriller rigs are equipped with 7500psi mud systems, and all are capable of adding a third mud pump and fourth engine if a customer requires such additional equipment capacity. In addition to these minimum characteristics, we believe E&P operators also increasingly desire drilling contractors with the ability to provide other flexible and varying equipment packages depending upon the specific nature of their drilling program and their field development plans. Such equipment package options may include redundant third mud pumps, 3 simultaneously operating mud pumps powered by a fourth engine when greater hydraulic flow and pressure is required, greater setback capacity allowing efficient drilling of ultra long horizontal laterals, or increased hookload when utilizing larger casing strings in combination with deeper wells. Our ShaleDriller fleet is capable of providing all of these varying equipment packages depending upon our customer requirements. Customer Contracts and Backlog Drilling contracts are obtained through competitive bidding or as a result of negotiations with customers, and may cover multi well and multi year projects. Each of our rigs operates under a separate drilling contract or drilling order subject to a master drilling contract. We perform drilling services on a daywork contract basis, under which we charge a specified rate per day. The dayrate under each of our contracts is a negotiated price determined by the location, depth and complexity of the wells to be drilled, operating conditions, the duration of the contract, and market conditions. We have not accepted any, and do not anticipate entering into, any turn key (fixed sum to deliver a hole to a stated depth) or footage (fixed rate per foot of hole drilled) contracts. The duration of land drilling contracts can vary from well to well or to a fixed term ranging from a few months to several years. The revenue generated by a rig in a given year is the product of the dayrate fee and the number of days the rig is earning this fee based on activity and the terms of the contract, referred to as utilization. Well to well contracts are typically cancelable at the option of either party upon the completion of drilling at a particular site. Fixed term contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an early termination payment to be paid to the drilling contractor if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. However, under certain limited circumstances, such as destruction of a drilling rig, the drilling contractor bankruptcy, sustained unacceptable performance by the drilling contractor or delivery of a rig beyond certain grace and or liquidated damage periods, no early termination payment would be paid to the drilling contractor. Drilling contracts also contain provisions regarding indemnification against certain types of claims involving injury to persons, property and for acts of pollution, which are subject to negotiation on a contract by contract basis. Under a typical daywork contract, we earn a dayrate fee while the rig is operating, and we earn a moving rate fee while the rig is moving between wells or drilling locations under the contract. If the rig is on standby or is not drilling due to a force majeure event unrelated to damage to the rig, contracts typically provide that we earn a rate during this period of time, which rate may be equal to or less than the operating rate. 6 Mobilization rates are determined by market conditions and are generally reimbursed by the customer. In most instances, contracts typically provide for additional payments associated with this initial mobilization of a drilling rig and that we receive a demobilization fee at the end of the contract term in certain circumstances equal to the estimated cost to transport the rig from the final drilling location and to compensate us for the estimated demobilization time. Drilling contracts typically provide that the contractor continues to earn the operating dayrate while a rig is not operating but under repair or maintenance, so long as the non operating time due to repair and maintenance does not exceed a specified number of hours in a given day or calendar month. As of December 31, 2019 , our backlog of term contracts was $515 million, all of which is expected to be realized during 2020. Our backlog does not include potential reductions in rates for unscheduled standby during periods in which the rig is moving, on standby or incurring maintenance and repair time in excess of contractually allowed downtime. In addition, rigs under term contracts may realize revenue on a standby without crew basis, which allows us to preserve our expected cash margins from the contract but reduces our overall top line revenue. To the extent that we have rigs under term contracts operating on a standby or standby without crew basis, our top line revenues will be less than our reported backlog from term contracts. Rigs operating under short term contracts with original terms less than six months are not included in our backlog numbers. As of December 31, 2019, we had six rigs operating under short term contracts. The following chart summarizes the weighted average number of rigs as of December 31, 2019 that we have operating under term contracts included in our backlog. Quarter Ending Quarter Ending Quarter Ending Quarter Ending March 31, 2020 June 30, 2020 September 30, 2020 December 31, 2020 Weighted Average Number of Rigs (1) 14.2 8.2 34 19 (1) Weighted average number of rigs calculated based upon the aggregate number of expected revenue days to be realized during the period from term contracts divided by the number of days in the applicable period. Term contracts include all contracts with original terms of 6 months or greater, and exclude well to well or short term contracts. Our Customers Customers for contract drilling services in the United States include major oil and natural gas companies, independent oil and natural gas companies, as well as numerous small to mid sized publicly traded and privately held oil and natural gas companies. We market our contract drilling services to all such customers. During 2019, our customers representing more than 10% of our revenues were Diamondback Energy, Inc., GeoSouthern Energy Corporation and COG Operating, LLC, a subsidiary of Concho Resources, Inc. Industry Competition To a large degree, our business depends on the level of capital spending by oil and natural gas companies for exploration, development and production activities. A sustained increase or decrease in the price of oil and natural gas could have a material impact on the exploration, development and production activities of our customers and could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The contract drilling industry is highly competitive and has become even more so under current market conditions. The price for contract drilling services is a key competitive factor in the United States land contract drilling markets, in part because equipment used in our businesses can be moved from 1 area to another in response to market conditions. In addition to price, we believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are availability and condition of equipment, efficiency of equipment, quality of personnel, service quality, experience and safety record. Many of our competitors are larger, publicly held corporations with significantly greater resources and longer operating histories than us. Our largest competitors for high end AC land drilling contract services are Helmerich & Payne, Inc., Precision Drilling Corporation, Nabors Industries, Ltd. and Patterson UTI Energy, Inc. Many of our larger competitors are able to offer ancillary products and services with their contract drilling services, and recently, some of our larger competitors have begun integrating and offering contract drilling services in connection with directional drilling and other services that we do not offer. 7 Government and Environmental Regulation All of our operations and facilities are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations related to various aspects of our business, including drilling of oil and natural gas wells; the relationships with our employees; containment and disposal of hazardous materials, oilfield waste, other waste materials and acids; and use of underground storage tanks. To date, we do not believe applicable environmental laws and regulations in the United States have required the expenditure by the contract drilling industry of significant resources outside the ordinary course of business. However, compliance costs under existing laws or under any new requirements could become material, and we could incur liability in any instance of noncompliance. Our business is generally affected by political developments and by federal, state and local laws and regulations that relate to the oil and natural gas industry. The adoption of laws and regulations affecting the oil and natural gas industry for economic, environmental and other policy reasons could increase costs relating to drilling and production, and otherwise have an adverse effect on our operations. Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations currently apply to our operations and may become more stringent in the future. Any suspension or moratorium of the services we provide, whether or not short term in nature, by a federal, state or local governmental authority, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In the United States, the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ( CERCLA ), and comparable state statutes impose liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include current and past owners and operators of the site where the release occurred, and persons who disposed of or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances released at the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. The federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ), as amended, and comparable state statutes, regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non hazardous wastes. Although CERCLA currently excludes petroleum from the definition of hazardous substances, and RCRA excludes certain classes of exploration and production wastes from regulation as hazardous waste under Subtitle C of RCRA, such exemptions by Congress under both CERCLA and RCRA may be deleted, limited, or modified in the future. If such changes are made to CERCLA and or RCRA, we could be required to remove and remediate previously disposed of materials (including materials disposed of or released by prior owners or operators) from properties (including ground water contaminated with hydrocarbons) and to perform removal or remedial actions to prevent future contamination. The federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, also known as the Clean Water Act, and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as amended (the Oil Pollution Act ), and analogous state laws and their respective implementing regulations govern the prevention of discharges of pollutants, including oil and produced water spills, into waters of the United States; and liability for drainage into waters of the United States. The Oil Pollution Act imposes strict liability for a comprehensive and expansive list of damages from an oil spill into waters from facilities. Liability may be imposed for oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages. Administrative, civil or criminal penalties may also be imposed for violation of federal safety, construction and operating regulations, and for failure to report a spill or to cooperate fully in a clean up. 8 The Oil Pollution Act also expands the authority and capability of the federal government to direct and manage oil spill clean up and operations, and requires operators to prepare oil spill response plans in cases where it can reasonably be expected that substantial harm will be d1 to the environment by discharges on or into navigable waters. Failure to comply with ongoing requirements or inadequate cooperation during a spill event may subject a responsible party, such as us, to administrative, civil or criminal actions. Although the liability for owners and operators is the same under the federal Water Pollution Act, the damages recoverable under the Oil Pollution Act are potentially much greater and can include natural resource damages. Our contract drilling services will be marketed in oil and natural gas producing regions that utilize hydraulic fracturing services to enhance the production of oil and natural gas from formations with low permeability, such as shales. Due to concerns raised relating to potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on ground water quality and the increased occurrence of seismic activity, legislative and regulatory efforts at the federal level and in some states have been initiated to render permitting and compliance requirements more stringent for hydraulic fracturing or prohibit the activity altogether. Such efforts could have an adverse effect on oil and natural gas production activities, which in turn could have an adverse effect on the contract drilling services that we render for our exploration and production customers. Our operations are also subject to federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations for the control of air emissions, including the federal Clean Air Act. The federal Clean Air Act, and comparable state laws, regulates emissions of various air pollutants through, for example, air emissions permitting programs. In addition, the Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources including pursuing the energy extraction sector under a National Compliance Initiative. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non compliance with air permits or other requirements of the federal Clean Air Act and associated state laws and regulations. Finally, more stringent federal, state and local regulations, such as the EPA rules issued in April 2012, which add new requirements for the oil and natural gas sector under the New Source Review Program and the National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants program, could result in increased costs and the need for operational changes. Any direct and indirect costs of meeting these requirements may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. On December 7, 2009, the EPA announced its findings that emissions of GHG present an endangerment to human health and the environment. The EPA based this finding on a conclusion that greenhouse gases are contributing to the warming of the Earth atmosphere and other climate changes. The EPA began to adopt regulations that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from certain stationary sources and has required monitoring and reporting for other stationary sources. Mandatory reporting requirements for additional regional, federal or state requirements have been imposed and additional requirements may be imposed in the future. New legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business could have an adverse effect on our operations and demand for our services. For example, during 2012, the EPA published rules that include standards to reduce methane emissions associated with oil and natural gas production. In May 2016, the EPA finalized regulations that set methane emission standards for new and modified oil and natural gas facilities, including production facilities. Currently, our operations are not adversely impacted by existing state and local climate change initiatives and, at this time, it is not possible to accurately estimate how potential future laws or regulations addressing greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our exploration and production operations. We are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act ( OSHA ) and comparable state statutes. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community right to know regulations under Title III of CERCLA and similar state statutes require that we organize and or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations. We believe that we are in compliance with these applicable requirements and with other OSHA and comparable requirements. Additionally, environmental laws such as the federal Endangered Species Act ( ESA ) and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, may impact exploration, development and production activities on public or private lands. The ESA provides broad protection for species of fish, wildlife and plants that are listed as threatened or endangered in the United States, and prohibits taking of endangered species. Federal agencies are required to ensure that any action authorized, funded or carried out by them is not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of listed species or modify their critical habitat. While some of our customers properties may be located in areas that are designated as habitat for endangered or threatened species, we believe that we are in substantial compliance with the ESA. However, the designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species or the designation of previously unprotected areas as a critical habitat could cause us to incur additional costs or become subject to operating restrictions or bans in the affected areas. 9 Risks and Insurance Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the drilling business, including accidents at the work location; blow outs; cratering; fires; and explosions. These and other hazards could cause personal injury or death; suspension of drilling operations; or damage or destruction of our equipment and that of others; damage to producing formations and surrounding areas; and environmental damage. Damage to the environment, including property contamination in the form of soil or ground water contamination, could also result from our operations, including through oil or produced water spillage; natural gas leaks; and fires. We maintain insurance coverage of types and amounts that we believe to be customary in the industry, but we may not be fully insured against all risks, either because insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs. Such risks include personal injury, well disasters, extensive fire damage, damage to the environment, and other hazards. The insurance coverage that we maintain includes insurance for fire, windstorm and other risks of physical loss to our rigs and other assets, employer liability, automobile liability, commercial general liability insurance and workers compensation insurance. We cannot assure, however, that any insurance obtained by us will be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities, or that this insurance will continue to be available or available on terms that are acceptable to us. While we carry insurance to cover physical damage to, or loss of, our drilling rigs and other assets, such insurance does not cover the full replacement cost of the rigs or other assets, and we do not carry insurance against loss of earnings resulting from such damage. Liabilities for which we are not insured, or which exceed the policy limits of our applicable insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, we may experience difficulties in collecting from insurers, or such insurers may deny all or a portion of our claims for insurance coverage. In addition to insurance coverage, we also attempt to obtain indemnification from our customers for certain risks. These indemnities typically require our customers to hold us harmless in the event of loss of production or reservoir damage. There is no assurance that we will obtain such contractual indemnity, and if obtained, whether such indemnity will be enforceable, whether the customer will be able to satisfy such indemnity or whether such indemnity will be supported by adequate insurance maintained by the customer. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or is not an enforceable or recoverable indemnity from a third party, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. See Risk Factors Our operations involve operating hazards, which if not insured or indemnified against, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Employees As of December 31, 2019 , we had approximately 650 employees, n1 of whom were contract employees or were represented by a union. The number of our employees fluctuates depending on our construction and drilling activities. 10 Seasonality Seasonality has not significantly affected our overall operations. However, our drilling operations can be affected by severe winter storms or other weather related events. Additionally, toward the end of some years, we experience slower contracting activity as customers capital expenditure budgets are depleted. Drilling Equipment, Suppliers and Subcontractors We use many suppliers of drilling equipment and services. Although these suppliers, drilling equipment and services have historically been available, there is no assurance that such drilling equipment and services will continue to be available on favorable terms or at all. We also utilize numerous manufacturers and independent subcontractors from various trades to supply key comp1nts to the rigs that we construct for our use. These key comp1nts include masts and substructures, top drives, high pressure mud pumps, pressure control equipment, engines, and VFD control systems. We believe that we have alternative sources for each of these comp1nts. Website Access to Our Periodic SEC Reports Our internet address is http www.icdrilling.com. We file and furnish Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q and Current Reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to these reports, with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ), which are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet website at http www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding our company that we file and furnish electronically with the SEC. We may from time to time provide important disclosures to investors by posting them in the investor relations section of our website, as allowed by SEC rules. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual report on Form 10 K and you should not consider information on our website as part of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 11 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face many challenges and risks in the industry in which we operate. You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, and the documents and other information incorporated by reference herein, before investing in our shares. The risks and uncertainties described are not the only 1s we face. Additional risk factors not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect us. If any of these risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our shares could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We derive all our revenues from companies in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry, a historically cyclical industry with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility in oil and natural gas prices. As a provider of land based contract drilling services, our business depends on the level of exploration and production activity by oil and natural gas companies operating in the United States, and in particular, the regions where we actively market our contract drilling services. The oil and natural gas exploration and production industry is a historically cyclical industry characterized by significant changes in the levels of exploration and development activities. Oil and natural gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in those prices significantly affect the levels of those activities. Worldwide political, regulatory, economic, and military events as well as natural disasters have contributed to oil and natural gas price volatility and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Any prolonged reduction in the overall level of exploration and development activities in the United States and the regions where we market our contract drilling services, whether resulting from changes in oil and natural gas prices or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect us in many ways by negatively impacting our revenues, cash flows and profitability; our ability to recontract drilling rigs upon expiration of existing contracts; our ability to recontract drilling rigs at profitable dayrates; our ability to invest in capital expenditures necessary to maintain our drilling fleet and respond to customer requirements; the fair market value of our drilling rig fleet and other assets; our ability to obtain additional debt and equity capital required to implement our operating strategy, and the cost of that capital; and our ability to retain skilled rig personnel whom we need to implement our growth strategy. Depending on the market prices of oil and natural gas, oil and natural gas exploration and production companies may cancel or curtail their drilling programs and may lower production spending on existing wells, thereby reducing demand for our services. Many factors beyond our control affect oil and natural gas prices, including, but not limited to the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; the discovery and development rate of new oil and natural gas reserves, especially shale and other unconventional natural gas resources for which we market our rigs; the rate of decline of existing and new oil and natural gas reserves; available pipeline and other oil and natural gas transportation capacity; the levels of oil and natural gas storage; the ability of oil and natural gas exploration and production companies to raise capital; economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere; actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; political instability in the Middle East and other major oil and natural gas producing regions; governmental regulations, sanctions and trade restrictions, both domestic and foreign; domestic and foreign tax policy; the availability of and constraints in pipeline, storage and other transportation capacity in the basins in which we operate, including, for example, takeaway constraints experienced in the Permian Basin; weather conditions in the United States; the pace adopted by foreign governments for the exploration, development and production of their national reserves; the price of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; the strength or weakness of the United States dollar; the overall supply and demand for oil and natural gas; and the development of alternate energy sources and the long term effects of worldwide energy conservation measures. 12 In addition, if oil and natural gas prices decline, companies that planned to finance exploration, development or production projects through the capital markets may be forced to curtail, reduce, postp1 or delay drilling activities even further, and also may experience an inability to pay suppliers. Adverse conditions in the global economic environment could also impact our vendors and suppliers ability to meet obligations to provide materials and services in general. If any of the foregoing were to occur, or if current depressed market conditions continue for a prolonged period of time, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results and our ability to timely and successfully implement our growth strategy. Oil prices declined from a high of $107.95 per barrel in the second quarter of 2014, to a low of $26.19 per barrel in the first quarter of 2016 (West Texas Intermediate Cushing, Oklahoma ( WTI ) spot price as reported by the United States Energy Information Administration (the EIA ). Similarly, natural gas prices (as measured at Henry Hub) declined from an average of $4.37 per MMBtu in 2014 to $252 per MMBtu in 2016. As a result, our industry experienced an exceptional downturn, with the U.S. land rig count falling from a high of 1,930 rigs in 2014 to a low of 404 rigs in 2016. In addition to overall rig count decline, pricing for our contract drilling services also substantially declined during this period of time. Although crude oil prices recovered in 2017 and 2018, reaching a high of $77.41 per barrel in the second quarter of 2018, the U.S. land rig count never recovered to its 2014 highs, only reaching 1,083 rigs the week ended December 28, 2018, and declining to 790 rigs working the week ended February 14, 2020. Similarly, although pricing for our drilling services improved during this period, pricing never reached the rates experienced in 2014. During the fourth quarter of 2018, oil prices began to decline, reaching a low of $44.18, but recovered to the $50.00 to $60.00 range as of the end of the fourth quarter of 2019. Most of our exploration and production ( E&P ) customers have decreased planned capital expenditure budgets for 2020 compared to 2019 levels with the goal of operating within their cash flows. Since December 31, 2019, demand for contract drilling services directed towards oil based commodities has stabilized and slightly improved, particularly in the Permian basin where the majority of our operating rigs are located. At the same time, demand for contract drilling services directed towards natural gas commodities softened in recent months as natural gas prices have fallen below $200 per mcf. This has caused several of our customers, in particular in the Haynesville Shale, to reduce planned drilling activities in 2020. As a result, we have begun relocating drilling rigs from the Haynesville Shale to the Permian Basin. Most recently, during the past several weeks oil and gas prices have fallen below the $50 level in response to Coronavirus concerns and its potential impact on worldwide oil demand. At this point, Coronavirus concerns have not had a material impact on our business or operations, however, if oil prices were to remain below $50 for an extended period of time, demand for our contract drilling services would soften, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Any loss of large customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our customer base consists of E&P companies that drill oil and natural gas wells in the United States in the regions where we market our rigs. As of December 31, 2019, we have rigs operating or earning revenues from 14 different customers, including 1 customer who has contracted four, or 14%, of our rigs, 1 customer who has contracted 3, or 10%, of our rigs and 2 customers who have contracted 2, or 7%, of our rigs. It is likely that we will continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of customers in the future. Daywork contracts in the contract drilling industry typically do not obligate those customers to order additional services from the drilling contractor beyond those for which they have currently contracted. If a customer decided not to continue to use our services or to terminate an existing contract, or if there is a change of management or ownership of a customer or a material adverse change in the financial condition of 1 of our customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows, and financial condition. If our customers delay paying or fail to pay a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. In most cases, we bill our customers for our services in arrears and are, therefore, subject to our customers delaying or failing to pay our invoices. In weak economic environments, we may experience increased delays and failures due to, among other reasons, a reduction in our customers cash flow from operations and their access to the credit markets. If our customers delay paying or fail to pay us a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. The significant majority of our marketed rigs are operating under contracts with terms expiring during 2020. If we are unable to continue to operate rigs in the spot market or renew our expiring contracts or continue their operation in the spot market, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition . Upon expiration of a drilling contract, our customers have no obligation to extend the contract term or recontract the drilling rig, and may elect to release the rig. All of our existing contracts expire during 2020 and 6 of our rigs at December 31, 13 2019, were operating on short term contracts with terms expiring in less than six months. We cannot assure that a customer will continue to renew contracts as they expire or that any replacement contract can be obtained for any of our rigs operating in the spot market or with terms expiring, and if obtained, that it would be on terms as favorable as those of our existing drilling contracts or at profitable levels. The failure to renew or timely replace 1 or more of our expiring contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations involve operating hazards, which if not insured or indemnified against, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the drilling and well services industries, including the risks of personal injury and loss of life; blowouts; cratering; fires and explosions; loss of well control; collapse of the borehole; damaged or lost drilling equipment; and damage or loss from extreme weather and natural disasters. Any of these hazards can result in substantial liabilities or losses to us from, among other things suspension of operations; damage to, or destruction of, our property and equipment and that of others; damage to producing or potentially productive oil and natural gas formations through which we drill; and environmental damage. Although, we seek to protect ourselves from some but not all operating hazards through insurance coverage, some risks are either not insurable or insurance is available only at rates that we consider uneconomical. Depending on competitive conditions and other factors, we attempt to obtain contractual protection against uninsured operating risks from our customers. However, customers who provide contractual indemnification protection may not in all cases maintain adequate insurance or otherwise have the financial resources necessary to support their indemnification obligations. Our insurance or indemnification arrangements may not adequately protect us against liability or loss from all the hazards of our operations. We do not carry loss of business insurance for a rig being out of service. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the potential risks affecting our operations and only in coverage amounts and deductible levels that we believe to be economical. Our insurance coverage includes deductibles which must be met prior to recovery. Additionally, our insurance is subject to exclusions and limitations, and there is no assurance that such coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages. The occurrence of a significant event that we have not fully insured or indemnified against or the failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations to us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may be unable to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. Incurring a liability for which we are not fully insured or indemnified could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry in which price competition could reduce our profitability. We encounter substantial competition from other drilling contractors. The competition in the markets in which we operate has intensified as recent mergers among E&P companies have reduced the number of available customers and the downturn in oil prices has decreased demand for drilling rigs and resulted in downward pricing pressure on operating drilling rigs. Contract drilling companies compete primarily on a regional basis, and the intensity of competition may vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. Most drilling services contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive bids, which also results in price competition. In addition to pricing, we believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are availability and condition of equipment, quality of personnel, efficiency of equipment, service quality, experience and safety record. The success of our business depends on our ability to offer safe and highly efficient operations, the quality and efficiency of our rigs and the skills and experience of our rig crews. 14 As a result of competition, we may lose market share or be unable to maintain or increase prices for our present services or to acquire additional business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the failure to maintain an adequate safety record could harm our ability to secure new drilling contracts. As a relatively new contract driller with limited operating history, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the reputation for safety and quality required to successfully compete against our competition. We face competition from many competitors with greater resources and greater ability to rapidly respond to changing customer requirements and market conditions. We compete with large national and multi national companies that have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical and other resources and greater name recognition than we do. Many of our larger competitors are able to offer ancillary products and services with their contract drilling services, and recently, some of our larger competitors have begun integrating and offering contract drilling services in connection with directional drilling and other services that we do not offer. In this regard, large diversified oilfield service companies have begun to market bundled services, including contract drilling services, in the United States. If any of these combined offerings gain acceptance within the United States market, it could place us at a competitive disadvantage that has an adverse impact on our future results of operations and profitability. Furthermore, some of our competitors greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand industry downturns, compete more effectively on the basis of price and technology, retain skilled rig personnel, and build new rigs or acquire and refurbish existing rigs so as to be able to place rigs into service more quickly than us in periods of high drilling demand. In addition, we compete with several smaller companies capable of competing effectively on a regional or local basis. Smaller competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services and changes in customer requirements. Finally, some E&P companies perform horizontal and directional drilling on their wells using their own equipment and personnel. Any increase in the development and utilization of in house drilling capabilities by our customers could decrease the demand for our services and have a material adverse impact on our business. New technology may cause our drilling methods or equipment to become less competitive. The drilling industry is subject to the introduction of new drilling and completion methods and equipment using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. Changes in technology or improvements in competitors equipment could make our equipment less competitive or require significant capital investments to build and maintain a competitive advantage. Further, we may face competitive pressure to design, implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that may allow them to implement new technologies before we can. If we are unable to implement new and emerging technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth strategy. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing could result in operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells that may reduce demand for our activities and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Hydraulic fracturing is a commonly used process that involves injection of water, sand, and certain chemicals to fracture the hydrocarbon bearing rock formation to allow flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations or ordinances restricting or increasing the costs of hydraulic fracturing could potentially increase our costs of operations and cause a decrease in drilling activity levels in the Permian Basin and other unconventional resource plays and an associated decrease in demand for our rigs and service, any or all of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 amended the Underground Injection Control provisions of the federal Safe Drinking Water Act ( SDWA ) to exclude certain hydraulic fracturing practices from the definition of underground injection. The EPA has asserted regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel and published guidance relating to such practices in February 2014. From time to time, Congress has considered bills to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the SDWA, which would have the effect of allowing the EPA to promulgate new regulations and permitting requirements for hydraulic fracturing, potentially including chemical disclosure requirements. At the state level, several states in which we operate have adopted regulations requiring the disclosure of certain information regarding hydraulic fracturing fluids. 15 Scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities continues in other ways. A number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. The EPA conducted a study of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and issued a final report in December 2016. This study and other studies that may be undertaken by the EPA or other federal agencies could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other statutory and or regulatory mechanisms. Additionally, in June 2016, the EPA published a rule establishing pretreatment standards which prohibit the disposal of unconventional oil and natural gas wastewater at publicly owned treatment works. In addition, some states and localities have adopted, and others are considering adopting, regulations or ordinances that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, that would require, with some exceptions, disclosure of constituents of hydraulic fracturing fluids, or that would impose higher taxes, fees or royalties on natural gas production. Moreover, public debate over hydraulic fracturing and shale natural gas production has been increasing, and has resulted in delays of well permits in some areas. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and natural gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil and natural gas, including from the developing shale plays, incurred by our customers or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing in the unconventional resource plays where we focus our operations. We depend on the services of key executives, the loss of whom could materially harm our business. Our senior executives are important to our success because they are instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business and technology, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel, and identifying customers and expansion opportunities. We also depend on the relationships that our senior management has with many of our customers. Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement could be found. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our senior executives. As a result, we are not insured against any losses resulting from the death of our key employees. Rig upgrade and refurbishment projects, as well as the reactivation of rigs that have been idle for six months or longer, are subject to risks which could cause delays or cost overruns and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations, and financial position. Rigs being upgraded, converted or re activated following a period of stack may experience start up complications and may encounter other operational problems that could result in significant delays, uncompensated downtime, reduced dayrates or the cancellation, termination or non renewal of drilling contracts. Rig upgrade projects are subject to risks of delay or significant cost overruns inherent in any large construction project from numerous factors, including the following shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment or shipyard construction; failure of equipment to meet quality and or performance standards; financial or operating difficulties of equipment vendors; unanticipated actual or purported change orders; inability by us or our customer to obtain required permits or approvals, or to meet applicable regulatory standards in our areas of operations; unanticipated cost increases between order and delivery; adverse weather conditions and other events of force majeure; design or engineering changes; and work stoppages and other labor disputes. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial position. Our current estimated backlog of contract drilling revenue may not ultimately be realized. As of December 31, 2019 , our estimated contract drilling backlog for future revenues under term contracts, which we define as contracts with a fixed term of six months or more, was approximately $515 million. All of this backlog expires in 2020, which requires us to renew these expiring contracts as well as short term contracts under which a large number of our rigs operate. Although we historically have been successful in obtaining extensions or follow on work for drilling rigs with expiring contracts, in periods of market decline or uncertainty such as the U.S. land contract drilling industry is experiencing, we cannot assure that we will obtain such renewals, or that such renewals will be on terms acceptable to us. Any failure to renew or find 16 follow on work for our drilling rigs with expiring contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our backlog does not include potential reductions in rates for unscheduled standby during periods in which the rig is moving, on standby or incurring maintenance and repair time in excess of contractually allowed downtime. To the extent that we have rigs under term contracts operating on a standby or standby without crew basis, our top line revenues will be less than our reported backlog from term contracts. Fixed term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an early termination payment to us if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term. Additionally, in certain circumstances, for example, destruction of a drilling rig that is not replaced within a specified period of time, our bankruptcy, or a breach of our contract obligations, the customer may not be obligated to make an early termination payment to us. Additionally, during depressed market conditions, such as those we are currently experiencing, or otherwise, customers may be unable to satisfy their contractual obligations or may seek to terminate, renegotiate or fail to honor their contractual obligations. In addition, we may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or negotiate our contracts for various reasons, including those described above. As a result, we may be unable to realize all of our current contract drilling backlog. In addition, the renegotiation or termination of fixed term contracts without the receipt of early termination payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our operating and maintenance costs with respect to our rigs include fixed costs that will not decline in proportion to decreases in dayrates. We do not expect our operating and maintenance costs with respect to our rigs to necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenue. Operating revenue may fluctuate as a function of changes in dayrate, but costs for operating a rig and property taxes are generally fixed or only semi variable regardless of the dayrate being earned. During times of reduced activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate as portions of the crew may be required to prepare our rigs for stacking, after which time the crew members are assigned to active rigs or dismissed. Moreover, when our rigs are mobilized from 1 geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. In general, labor costs increase due to higher salary levels, inflation, and increases in workers compensation insurance. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity the unit is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. We participate in a capital intensive business. We may not be able to finance future growth of our operations. The contract drilling industry is capital intensive. Our cash flow from operations and the continued availability of credit are subject to a number of variables, including general economic conditions, conditions in the oil and natural gas market, and more specifically, our rig utilization rates, operating margins and ability to control costs and obtain contracts in a competitive industry. Our cash flow from operations and present borrowing capacity may not be sufficient to fund our anticipated capital expenditures and working capital requirements. We may from time to time seek additional financing, either in the form of bank borrowings, sales of debt or equity securities or otherwise. To the extent our capital resources and cash flow from operations are at any time insufficient to fund our activities or repay our indebtedness as it becomes due, we will need to raise additional funds through public or private financing or additional borrowings. We may not be able to obtain any such capital resources in the amount or at the time when needed. Based upon the significant downturn in market conditions, any new sources of debt capital would require substantially higher interest requirements, and any new sources of equity capital could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. Any limitations on our access to capital or increase in the cost of that capital could significantly impair our growth strategy. Our ability to maintain our targeted credit profile could affect our cost of capital as well as our ability to execute our growth strategy. In addition, a variety of factors beyond our control could impact the availability or cost of capital, including domestic or international economic conditions, increases in key benchmark interest rates and or credit spreads, the adoption of new or amended banking or capital market laws or regulations, the re pricing of market risks and volatility in capital and financial markets. If we are at any time not able to obtain the necessary capital resources, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be adversely impacted by work stoppages or other labor matters. We depend on skilled employees to build and operate our rigs, and any prolonged labor disruption involving our employees could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition by disrupting our ability to perform drilling related services for our customers. Moreover, unionization efforts have been made from time to time within our industry, with varying degrees of success. Any such unionization could increase our costs or limit our flexibility. 17 Failure to hire and retain skilled personnel could adversely affect our business. Our ability to be productive and profitable depends upon our ability to employ and retain skilled personnel and we cannot assure that at times of high demand we will be able to retain, recruit and train an adequate number of skilled workers. In addition, our ability to expand our operations will depend in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. Potential inability or lack of desire by workers to commute to our facilities and job sites and competition for workers from competitors or other industries are factors that could affect our ability to attract and retain workers. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers or other industries could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If either or both of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. Our inability to attract and retain skilled workers in sufficient numbers to satisfy our existing service contracts and enter into new contracts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth strategy We depend on a limited number of vendors, some of which are thinly capitalized and the loss of any of which could disrupt our operations. Our contract drilling operations depend upon the availability of various rig equipment, including VFD drives and drillers cabins, top drives, mud pumps, engines and drill pipe, as well as replacement parts, related rig equipment and fuel. Some of these have been in short supply from time to time. In addition, key rig comp1nts critical to the operation, construction or upgrade of our rigs are either purchased from or fabricated by a limited number of vendors, including vendors that may compete against us from time to time. For many of these products and services, there are only a limited number of vendors and suppliers available to us. We do not currently have any long term supply contracts with any of our suppliers or subcontractors and may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our larger competitors when purchasing from these suppliers and subcontractors. Shortages could occur in these essential comp1nts due to an interruption of supply or increased demands in the industry. If we are unable to procure certain of such rig comp1nts or services from our subcontractors we would be required to reduce or delay our rig construction and other operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth strategy. We could be adversely affected if shortages of equipment or supplies occur. Increased or decreased demand among drilling contractors and our customers for consumable supplies, including fuel, water and ancillary rig equipment, such as pumps, valves, drill pipe and engines, may lead to delays in obtaining these materials and our inability to operate our rigs in an efficient manner. We have periodically experienced increased lead times in purchasing ancillary equipment for our drilling rigs. To the extent there are significant delays in being able to purchase important comp1nts for our rigs, certain of our rigs may not be available for operation or may not be able to operate as efficiently as expected, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our customers typically purchase the fuel and water for their operations, including fuel that runs our drilling rigs, and thus bear the financial impact of increased prices. However, prolonged shortages in the availability of fuel or water to conduct drilling and completion activities could result in the suspension of our contracts or reduce demand for our contract drilling services and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Legal proceedings could have a negative impact on our business. The nature of our business makes us susceptible to legal proceedings and governmental investigations from time to time. Lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any litigation or claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. Regulatory compliance costs and restrictions, as well as any delays in obtaining permits by our customers for their operations, could impair our business. The operations of our customers are subject to or impacted by a wide array of regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate. As a result of changes in regulations and laws relating to the oil and natural gas industry, including land drilling, our customers operations could be disrupted or curtailed by governmental authorities. In most states, our customers are required to obtain permits from 1 or more governmental agencies in order to perform drilling and completion activities. Such permits are typically required by state agencies, but can also be required by federal and local governmental agencies. The requirements for such permits vary depending on the location where such drilling and completion activities will be conducted. As with all governmental permitting processes, there is a degree of uncertainty as to whether a permit will be granted, the time 18 it will take for a permit to be issued, and the conditions which may be imposed in connection with the granting of the permit. Additionally, the high cost of compliance with applicable regulations may cause customers to discontinue or limit their operations or defer planned drilling, and may discourage companies from continuing development activities. As a result, demand for our services could be substantially affected by regulations adversely impacting the oil and natural gas industry. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant liabilities for penalties, damages or costs of remediation or compliance. Our operations are subject to federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of natural resources and the environment, health and safety aspects of our operations and waste management, including the transportation and disposal of waste and other materials. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations on our operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to mitigate or prevent releases of materials from our facilities, the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations and the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in investigations, restrictions or orders suspending well operations, the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the revocation of permits and the issuance of corrective action orders, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There is inherent risk of environmental costs and liabilities in our business as a result of our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and oilfield and industrial wastes, air emissions and wastewater discharges related to our operations, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Some environmental laws and regulations may impose strict, joint and several liability, which means that in some situations, we could be exposed to liability as a result of our conduct that was without fault or lawful at the time it occurred or as a result of the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Clean up costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and costs associated with changes in environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Laws protecting the environment generally have become more stringent over time and are expected to continue to do so, which could lead to material increases in costs for future environmental compliance and remediation. The modification or interpretation of existing laws or regulations, or the adoption of new laws or regulations, could curtail exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and natural gas, could limit well servicing opportunities or impose unforeseen liabilities. We may not be able to recover some or any of our costs of compliance with these laws and regulations from insurance. Potential listing of species as endangered under the federal ESA could result in increased costs and new operating restrictions or delays on our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers, which could adversely reduce the amount of contract drilling services that we provide to such customers. The federal ESA and analogous state laws regulate a variety of activities, including oil and natural gas development, which could have an adverse effect on species listed as threatened or endangered under the ESA or their habitats. The designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species or the designation of previously unprotected areas as a critical habitat could cause oil and natural gas exploration and production operators to incur additional costs or become subject to operating delays, restrictions or bans in affected areas, which impacts could adversely reduce the amount of drilling activities in affected areas, including support services that we provide to such operators under our contract drilling services segment. Numerous species have been listed or proposed for protected status in areas in which we provide or could in the future provide field services. For instance, the sage grouse, the lesser prairie chicken and certain wildflower species, among others, are species that have been or are being considered for protected status under the ESA and whose range can coincide with our oil and natural gas production activities. The presence of protected species in areas where operators for whom we provide contract drilling services conduct exploration and production operations could impair such operators ability to timely complete well drilling and development and, consequently, adversely affect the amount of contract drilling or other field services that we provide to such operators, which reduction of services could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting or regulating emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our field services. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases from industrial and energy sources contribute to increases of carbon dioxide levels in the Earth atmosphere and oceans and contribute to global warming and other environmental effects, the EPA has adopted various regulations under the federal Clean Air Act addressing emissions of greenhouse gases that may affect the oil and natural gas industry. During 2012, the EPA published rules that include standards to reduce methane emissions associated with oil and natural gas production. In May 2016, the EPA finalized regulations that set methane emission standards for new and modified oil and natural gas facilities, including production 19 facilities. In addition, the United States has been involved in international negotiations regarding greenhouse gas reductions under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and was among the 195 nations that signed an international accord in December 2015 with the objective of limiting greenhouse gas emission. The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016; however, the United States announced its intention to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on June 1, 2017. The United States status and continued participation in these and other initiatives or regulatory changes could result in increased costs of development and production and could have adverse effects on our operations. Additionally, certain U.S. states and regional coalitions of states have adopted measures regulating or limiting greenhouse gases from certain sources or have adopted policies seeking to reduce overall emissions of greenhouse gases. The adoption and implementation of any international treaty or of any federal or state legislation or regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to comply with such requirements and possibly require the reduction or limitation of emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations and other sources within the industrial or energy sectors. Such legislation or regulations could adversely affect demand for the production of oil and natural gas and thus reduce demand for the services we provide to oil and natural gas producers as well as increase our operating costs by requiring additional costs to operate and maintain equipment and facilities, install emissions controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes and fees relating to emissions, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases may produce changes in climate or weather, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events, which if any such effects were to occur, could have adverse physical effects on our operations, physical assets and field services to exploration and production operators. The effects of severe weather could adversely affect our operations. Changes in climate due to global warming trends could adversely affect our operations by limiting, or increasing the costs associated with, equipment or product supplies. In addition, coastal flooding and adverse weather conditions such as increased frequency and or severity of hurricanes could impair our ability to operate in affected regions of the country. Oil and natural gas operations of our customers located in Louisiana and parts of Texas may be adversely affected by hurricanes and tropical storms, resulting in reduced demand for our services. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include curtailment of services; weather related damage to facilities and equipment; suspension of operations; inability to deliver equipment, personnel and products to job sites in accordance with contract schedules; and loss of productivity. These constraints could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. Unusually warm winters also adversely affect the demand for our services by decreasing the demand for natural gas. Our business is subject to cybersecurity risks and threats. Threats to information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow. It is possible that our business, financial and other systems could be compromised, which might not be noticed for some period of time. Risks associated with these threats include, among other things, loss of intellectual property, disruption of our customers business operations and safety procedures, loss or damage to our worksite data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events. Any future implementation of price controls on oil and natural gas would affect our operations. Certain groups have asserted efforts to have the United States Congress impose some form of price controls on either oil, natural gas, or both. There is no way at this time to know what results these efforts may have. However, any future limits on the price of oil or natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations . Since our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Risks Related to Our Liquidity We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under applicable debt instruments, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance indebtedness depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the interest or principal, when due, on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more 1rous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet debt service and other obligations. Our credit facility currently restricts our ability to dispose of assets and our use of the proceeds from such disposition subject to certain defined exceptions. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and the proceeds of any such disposition may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations. Restrictions in our existing and future debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to engage in certain activities. Our existing debt instruments contain a number of significant covenants, including restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to, among other things incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; make loans to others; make investments; merge or consolidate with another entity; transfer, lease or dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; make certain payments; create or incur liens; purchase, hold or acquire capital stock or certain other types of securities; pay cash dividends; enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and engage in certain other transactions without the prior consent of the lenders. A breach of any covenant in any of our debt instruments would result in a default. A resulting event of default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the payment of the indebtedness outstanding under, and a termination of, these debt instruments. The accelerated indebtedness would become immediately due and payable. If that occurs, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility may decline during 2020. At December 31, 2019 , the borrowing base under our ABL Credit Facility was $25.5 million , and we had $25.1 million of availability remaining of our $40.0 million commitment on that date. The borrowing base under the ABL Credit Facility is calculated based upon 85% of the sum of our eligible accounts receivable. In most circumstances, all of accounts receivable are considered eligible unless they are more than 90 days past due. If at any time our borrowing base falls below our outstanding balance under our ABL Credit Facility, and we were not able to promptly repay such deficiency, we would be required to repay to the banks any deficiency amount. In such event, if our available cash balances were not sufficient to repay such amounts, we would be required to obtain other debt or equity financing necessary to cure such deficiency, and there can be no assurance that such additional financing sources would be available to us, or available on terms acceptable to us. Any inability to timely cure any deficiency between our borrowing base and credit facility balance may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. 21 A failure of any of our lenders to honor commitments or advance funds under our existing debt instruments would have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our operations and business strategy. Our ABL Credit Facility limits the amounts we can borrow up to a borrowing base amount which is calculated monthly and is based on a percentage of our eligible accounts receivable. The borrowing base under our ABL Credit Facility was $25.5 million as of December 31, 2019 , with lender commitments of $40.0 million. Our Term Loan Facility also contains a committed accordion feature that allows us to borrow up to an additional $15 million during the term of that facility. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our ABL Credit Facility as a result of a decrease in borrowing base or under any of our outstanding debt facilities due to an unwillingness or inability on the part of lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. As a result, we may be unable to implement our strategic plans, make acquisitions or capital expenditures or otherwise carry out business plans, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to comply with the financial covenants contained in our debt instruments is based upon our future cash flows and debt levels. Both our existing ABL Credit Facility and Term Loan Facility contain a springing financial covenant requiring us to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio ("FCCR") of 10 to 10. The FCCR is equal to adjusted EBITDA less capital expenditures divided by cash interest expense plus scheduled principal payments, cash dividends and finance lease obligations plus cash taxes paid. This covenant is only tested when excess availability under our ABL Credit Facility falls below 10% of our borrowing base. In addition, our existing Term Loan Facility contains a minimum liquidity covenant that requires us to maintain at all times at least $10 million of liquidity, which can be comprised of cash plus availability under our ABL Credit Facility. Our compliance with each of these covenants depends significantly upon our level of cash flows, which are based upon factors such as future dayrates and rig utilization that are difficult to predict based upon the cyclical nature of our industry. If we are not able to comply with the covenants contained in our debt facilities, we would be required to seek a waiver or amendment to the facility, or seek alternative financing sources, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative financing sources. Any failure to comply with the financial covenants contained in our credit facility, or to cure any such non compliance may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business . Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. Our debt carries a floating rate of interest linked to various indices, including LIBOR. A change in indices, including the announced discontinuation of LIBOR, resulting in interest rate increases on our debt could adversely affect our cash flow and operating results. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for capital expenditures and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example, total long term debt at December 31, 2019 included $130.0 million of floating rate debt attributed to borrowings at an average interest rate of 9.60% , and the impact on annual cash flow of a 10% change in the floating rate (approximately 0.96% ) would be approximately $12 million annually based on the floating rate debt and other obligations outstanding at December 31, 2019 ; however, there are no assurances that possible rate changes would be limited to such amounts. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our desired growth and operating results. Risks Related to our Common Stock The market price of common stock of companies engaged in the oil and natural gas service industry, including our common stock price, has been highly volatile. Stock price volatility could adversely affect our business operations by, among other things, impeding our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and to obtain additional financing. In addition to the other risk factors discussed in this section, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; factors influencing the levels of global oil and natural gas exploration and exploitation activities, such as a downturn in oil prices; the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors or analysts consider comparable to us; 22 announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; and changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. To the extent that the price of our common stock remains at lower levels or it declines further, our ability to raise funds through the issuance of equity or otherwise use our common stock as consideration will be reduced. In addition, increases in our leverage may make it more difficult for us to access additional capital. These factors may limit our ability to implement our operating and growth plans. Because we have no plans to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since our incorporation and our credit facility prohibits us from paying cash dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support our operations and growth. Any payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent on the amount of funds legally available, our financial condition, capital requirements, ability to pay such dividends under our then existing credit facility and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company at a premium that a stockholder may consider favorable, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The existence of some provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws that could delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control of our company include provisions regulating the ability of our stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters for action at annual meetings of our stockholders; limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting and act by written consent; and the authorization given to our board of directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock in the event of our liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders or rank senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. We intend to evaluate and may attempt to increase our capital resources by offering debt or equity securities, including commercial paper, medium term notes, senior or subordinated notes, convertible notes and classes of preferred stock. In the event of our liquidation, holders of our debt securities and preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market value of our common stock, or both. Our preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that would limit amounts available for distribution to holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market value of our common stock and diluting their shareholdings in us. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, 1 or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of 1 or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. 23 The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the large number of shares that became eligible for sale following the expiration of the lock up period governing the shares of common stock issued in connection with the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger between us and Sidewinder Drilling LLC. The lock up period ended October 1, 2019. A substantial number of additional shares of our common stock are eligible for resale in the public market. Current stockholders of the Company and former shareholders of Sidewinder may not wish to continue to invest in the operations of the combined business after the Sidewinder Merger, or for other reasons, may wish to dispose of some or all of their interests in the Company after the Sidewinder Merger. Sales of substantial numbers of shares of both the newly issued and the existing shares of our common stock in the public market following the expiration of the applicable lock up period for these shares could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. MSD Capital, L.P. and MSD Partners, L.P. (the MSD Parties ) own a large percentage of the Company common stock as a result of the Sidewinder Merger, and will have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval; such stockholders priorities for the Company business may be different from the Company others stockholders. The MSD Parties holds approximately 30% of the outstanding shares of the Company common stock. Although the MSD Parties have agreed in a stockholders agreement to certain limits on their voting in connection with the election of directors, this limitation will terminate on October 1, 2021, and this limitation does not apply to most other matters that may be submitted by the Company or third parties for stockholder approval. Accordingly, the MSD Parties may be able to significantly influence the outcome of many corporate transactions or other matters submitted to the Company stockholders for approval, including any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company assets or any other significant corporate transaction, such that the MSD Parties could potentially delay or prevent a change of control of the Company, even if such a change of control would benefit the Company other stockholders. The interests of the MSD Parties may differ from the interests of other stockholders. 24 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS N1 ITEM 2 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES
