CIK: 1670349
Company Name: U S WELL SERVICES INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2020-03-05
Accession Number: 0001564590-20-009011


Item 1 Business Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety Regulations . Compliance with current and future environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells and any inability to secure transportation and access to disposal wells with sufficient capacity to accept all of our flowback and produced water on economic terms may increase our customers operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our cu stomers operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted. In addition, the legal requirements related to the disposal of produced water into a non producing geologic formation by means of underground injection wells are subject to change based on conce rns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such disposal activities. 1 such concern arises from recent seismic events near underground disposal wells that are used for the disposal by injection of produced water resulting from oil, natural g as and natural gas liquids activities. In response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells to assess any relat ionship between seismicity and the use of such wells. Among other things, these rules require companies seeking permits for disposal wells to provide seismic activity data in permit applications, provide for more frequent monitoring and reporting for certa in wells and allow the state to modify, suspend or terminate permits on grounds that a disposal well is likely to be, or determined to be, causing seismic activity. States may issue orders to temporarily shut down or to curtail the injection depth of exist ing wells in the vicinity of seismic events. Another consequence of seismic events may be lawsuits alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells by us. Increased regulation and attention given to induced seismicity could also lead to greater opposition, including litigation to limit or prohibit oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids activities utilizing injection wells for produced water disposal. Any 1 or more of these developments may result in us or our vendors having to limit disposal well volumes, disposal rates and pressures or locations, or require us or our vendors to shut down or curtail the injection into disposal wells, which events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Our ability to expand our operations relies in part on our ability to market our Cle an Fleet technology , and advancements in well service technologies, including those involving hydraulic fracturing, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The hydraulic fracturing industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent or other intellectual property protections. For example, we use our patented Clean Fleet technology as a competitive advantage in the markets we serve. As competitors and others use or develop new or comparable technologies in the future, we may lose market share or be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we may face competitive pressure to develop, implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we do, which may allow them to gain technological advantages or implement new technologies before we can. Additionally, we may be unable to implement new technologies or services at all, on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. New technology could also make it easier for our customers to vertically integrate their operations, thereby reducing or eliminating the need for our services. Limits on our ability to effectively use or implement new technologies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may record losses or impairment charges related to idle assets or assets that we sell. Prolonged periods of low utilization, changes in technology or the sale of assets below their carrying value may cause us to experience losses. These events could result in the recognition of impairment charges that negatively impact our financial results. Significant impairment charges as a result of a decline in market conditions or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. Risks Related to Our Securities Our only significant assets are the ownership of a majority interest in USWS Holdings, and such ownership may not be sufficient to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. We have no direct operations or significant assets other than the ownership of a majority (92%) interest in USWS Holdings. We depend on USWS Holdings and its subsidiaries, including U.S. Well Services, LLC, for distributions, loans and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. Subject to certain restrictions, USWS Holdings generally will be required to (i) make pro rata distributions to its members, including us, in an amount at least sufficient to enable us to pay our taxes and (ii) reimburse us for certain corporate and other overhead expenses. However, legal and contractual restrictions in agreements governing indebtedness of USWS Holdings and its subsidiaries, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of USWS Holdings and its subsidiaries may limit our ability to obtain cash from USWS Holdings. The earnings from, or other available assets of, USWS Holdings and its subsidiaries, may not be sufficient to enable us to satisfy our financial obligations. USWS Holdings is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, will not be subject to any entity level U.S. federal income tax. Instead, taxable income will be allocated to holders of USWS Units, including us. As a result, we generally will incur taxes on our allocable share of any net taxable income generated by USWS Holdings. Under the terms of the Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of USWS Holdings, dated November 9, 2018 (the A&R USWS Holdings LLC Agreement ), among MPAC and certain owners of common units in USWS Holdings, USWS Holdings is obligated to make tax distributions to holders of the USWS Units, including us, except to the extent such distributions would render USWS Holdings insolvent or are otherwise prohibited by law or the terms of any future financing agreement of USWS Holdings or its subsidiaries. In addition to our tax obligations, we also incur expenses related to our operations and our interests in USWS Holdings, including costs and expenses of being a publicly traded company, all of which could be significant. To the extent that we require funds and USWS Holdings or its subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of their financing arrangements, or are otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to pay our income taxes when due. 26 There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the continued listing standards of Nasdaq. Our Class A common stock and warrants are currently listed on Nasdaq. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet Nasdaq listing requirements with respect to our Class A common stock and warrants. If our Class A common stock or warrants are delisted, there could be limited availability of market quotations for the Class A common stock and warrants and reduced liquidity in trading for these securities. Although we anticipate that these securities would be eligible for quotation and trading on the over the counter market, there can be no assurance that trading would be commenced or maintained on the over the counter market. In addition, if we fail to meet Nasdaq listing requirements with respect to our Class A common stock, in addition to reduced liquidity, we and our stockholders could face significant material adverse consequences including a determination that our Class A common stock is a penny stock which will require brokers trading in our stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities; a limited amount of news and analyst coverage; and a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. The National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996, which is a federal statute, prevents or preempts the states from regulating the sale of certain securities, which are referred to as covered securities. Because our Class A common stock is listed on Nasdaq, it is a covered security. Although the states are preempted from regulating the sale of our Class A common stock, if we were no longer listed on Nasdaq, our Class A common stock would not be a covered security and we would be subject to regulation in each state in which we offer our Class A common stock. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, increases costs and distracts management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost effective manner. As a public company, we are subject to laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions, related regulations of the SEC and the requirements of Nasdaq, including the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes Oxley Act, the Dodd Frank Act and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations require us to incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we would not incur if we were not a public company. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. The Sarbanes Oxley Act and the rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the national securities exchanges, establish certain requirements for the corporate governance practices of public companies. For example, as a result of becoming a public company, we have additional board committees and are required to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight are required. We rely on a small number of key personnel to manage compliance with these regulations, and compliance with such regulations causes additional costs to our operations and diverts management attention from implementing our growth strategy, which could prevent us from improving our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal control over financial reporting, accounting systems disclosure controls and procedures, auditing functions and other procedures related to public reporting in order to meet our reporting obligations as a public company. 27 We are an emerging growth company and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging grow th companies will result in significant savings. We are an emerging growth company as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act ( JOBS Act ). For as long as we remain an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years or until such earlier time that we have more than $107 billion in annual revenues, have more than $700 million in market value of our common shares held by non affiliates, or issue more than $10 billion of non convertible debt over a 3 year period. Further, there is no guarantee that the exemptions available to us under the JOBS Act will result in significant savings. To the extent we choose not to use exemptions from various reporting requirements under the JOBS Act, we may incur additional compliance costs, which may impact earnings and result in further diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities. An active, liquid and orderly trading market for our securities may not be maintained, which could adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. An active, liquid and orderly trading market for our securities may not be maintained. Active, liquid and orderly trading markets usually result in less price volatility and more efficiency in carrying out investors purchase and sale orders. The market price of our securities could vary significantly as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. In the event of a drop in the market price of our securities, you could lose a substantial part or all of your investment in our securities. The following factors could affect the price of our securities quarterly variations in our financial and operating results; the public reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; strategic actions by our competitors; the failure of securities or industry analysts to cover our securities or publish research or reports about us, our business, or our market; changes in revenue or earnings estimates, or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage, by equity research analysts; speculation in the press or investment community; sales of our securities by us or our stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur; the volume of our securities available for public sale; changes in accounting principles, policies, guidance, interpretations or standards; additions or departures of key management personnel; actions by our stockholders; general market conditions, including fluctuations in commodity prices; domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; and the realization of any risks described under this Risk Factors section. 28 The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companie s. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our securities. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a c ompany securities. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management attention and resources and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Future sales or the availability for sale of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock , or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities. Our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (as amended, the Second Amended and Restated Charter ) authorizes us to issue 400,000,000 shares of Class A common stock , of which 62,857,624 shares were outstanding as of March 2, 2020, and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 55,000 shares of Series A convertible redeemable preferred stock ( Series A preferred stock ) were outstanding as of March 2, 2020. The holders of the Series A preferred stock will have the right to convert all or any portion of their shares of Series A preferred stock into shares of Class A common stock beginning in May 2020. In addition, as of March 2, 2020, warrants to purchase up to 15,680,651 shares of our Class A common stock were outstanding and immediately exercisable. A large percentage of our shares of common stock are held by a relatively small number of investors. We entered into registration rights agreements (the Registration Rights Agreements ) with certain of those investors in connection with the Transaction and in connection with their subsequent purchase of Series A preferred stock and warrants pursuant to which we have filed registration statements with the SEC to facilitate potential future sales of such shares by them. We may issue shares of our Class A common stock or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our Class A common stock , or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be substantial. We may also grant registration rights covering those shares of our Class A common stock or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our Class A common stock will have on the price at which our Class A common stock trades or the size of future issuances of our Class A common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances will have on the market price of our Class A common stock . Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock , or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. Certain of our principal stockholders have significant influence over us. A large percentage of our shares of Class A common stock are held by a relatively small number of investors whose interests may conflict with that of our other common stockholders. Consequently, these holders (each of whom we refer to as a principal stockholder ) may have significant influence over all matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and the size of our Board, any amendment to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or the approval of any merger or other significant corporate transaction, including a sale of substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership and the rights of our principal stockholders will limit the ability of our other common stockholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, actions may be taken that they may not view as beneficial. Furthermore, conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us, on the 1 hand, and our principal stockholders and their respective affiliates, including portfolio companies, on the other hand, concerning among other things, potential competitive business activities or business opportunities. Several of our principal stockholders are private equity firms or investment funds in the business of making investments in entities in a variety of industries. As a result, our principal stockholders existing and future portfolio companies may compete with us for investment or business opportunities. Our Second and Amended and Restated Charter provides that our directors and officers, including any of the foregoing who were designated by our principal stockholders, do not have any obligation to offer to us any corporate opportunity of which he or she may become aware prior to offering such opportunities to other entities with which they may be affiliated, subject to certain limited exceptions. 29 We may amend the terms of our Public Warrants and Private Placement Warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders with the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the th en outstanding Public Warrants. As a result, the exercise price of these warrants could be increased, the exercise period could be shortened and the number of shares of our Class A common stock purchasable upon exercise of a warrant could be decreased, wit hout approval by all of the warrant holders. We issued 32,500,000 warrants to purchase shares of our Class A common stock (the Public Warrants ) as part of our IPO and 15,500,000 warrants to purchase shares of our Class A common stock in a private placement that closed simultaneously with the closing of our IPO (the Private Placement Warrants ). Our Public Warrants and Private Placement Warrants were issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision but requires the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding Public Warrants to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the Public Warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding Public Warrants approve of such amendment. Although our ability to amend the terms of the Public Warrants with the consent of at least 65% of the then outstanding Public Warrants is unlimited, examples of such amendments could be amendments to, among other things, increase the exercise price of the warrants, shorten the exercise period or decrease the number of shares of our Class A common stock purchasable upon exercise of a warrant. We may redeem unexpired Public Warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to warrant holders, thereby making their Public Warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding Public Warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption, provided that the last reported sales price of our Class A common stock equals or exceeds $24.00 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending on the third trading day prior to the date we send the notice of redemption to the warrant holders. If, and when, the Public Warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Redemption of the outstanding Public Warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise their Public Warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for them to do so, (ii) to sell their warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold their Public Warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of their Public Warrants. N1 of the Private Placement Warrants will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by Matlin & Partners Acquisition Sponsor, LLC ( M&P LLC ) or its permitted transferees. The exercise of our outstanding warrants could increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2019, we had 9,994,635 Public Warrants and 15,500,000 Private Placement Warrants outstanding that were issued concurrently with our IPO. Each warrant is exercisable to purchase 1 half of 1 share of Class A common stock for $5.75 per half share, or $1150 per whole share, commencing on December 9, 2018. In addition, 2,933,333 warrants were issued to certain institutional investors in connection with the issuance of our Series A preferred stock in May 2019, which are exercisable to purchase 1 share of our Class A common stock for $7.66 per share. Additionally, subject to there being shares of Series A preferred stock outstanding, we will issue an aggregate of 488,888 additional warrants in quarterly installments beginning nine months after the closing date of our issuance of Series A preferred stock in May 2019. To the extent such warrants are exercised, additional shares of our Class A common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to the then existing holders of our Class A common stock and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. The Private Placement Warrants are identical to the Public Warrants, except that, so long as they are held by M&P LLC or its permitted transferees, (i) they will not be redeemable by us, (ii) they (including the Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of these warrants) could not, subject to certain limited exceptions, be transferred, assigned or sold by M&P LLC until December 9, 2018 and (iii) they may be exercised by M&P LLC or its permitted transferees for cash or on a cashless basis. 30 Additionally, the Company has engaged, and in the future may engage, in transactions to exchange outstanding warrants for shares of Class A common stock. Any transactions to exchange warrants for shares of Class A common stock will resu lt in dilution to the then existing holders of our Class A common stock and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales in the public market of substantial numbers of shares issued in connection with the exercise or exchan ge of warrants could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of the Class A common stock. Our Second Amended and Restated Charter authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of the Second Amended and Restated Charter and our bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to and desirable by our stockholders, including a classified board of directors, so that only approximately 1 third of our directors are elected each year; removal of directors by our stockholders only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2 3% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class; adoption, amendment or repeal of our bylaws by our stockholders only by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2 3% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class; amendment or repeal of the supermajority voting provisions of the Second Amended and Restated Charter described above only by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2 3% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote on such amendment or repeal, in addition to any other vote of stockholders required by the Second Amended and Restated Charter or applicable law; inability of our stockholders to call special meetings or act by written consent; and advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to our board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders. The Second Amended and Restated Charter designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees. The Second Amended and Restated Charter provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware ( Court of Chancery ) will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or employees of ours arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Second Amended and Restated Charter or our bylaws or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each case except for such claims as to which (a) the Court of Chancery determines that it does not have personal jurisdiction over an indispensable party, (b) exclusive jurisdiction is vested in a court or forum other than the Court of Chancery or (c) the Court of Chancery does not have subject matter jurisdiction. Section 27 of the Exchange Act creates exclusive federal jurisdiction over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. As a result, the exclusive forum provision will not apply to actions arising under the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. The Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware has recently held that a Delaware corporation can only use its constitutive documents to bind a plaintiff to a particular forum where the claim involves rights or relationships that were established by or under Delaware corporate law. As such, these exclusive forum provisions are also not meant to apply to actions arising under the Securities Act. In any case, our stockholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. 31 Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our Second Amended and Restated Charter described in the preceding paragraph. This exclusive forum provision may limit a stockholder ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Additionally, a court could determine that the exclusive forum provision is unenforceable. If a cour t were to find these provisions of our Second Amended and Restated Charter inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, 1 or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters i n other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Unanticipated changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We will be subject to income taxes in the United States, and our domestic tax liabilities will be subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expected timing and amount of the release of any tax valuation allowances; tax effects of stock based compensation; costs related to intercompany restructurings; changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof; and lower than anticipated future earnings in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated future earnings in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory tax rates. In addition, we may be subject to audits of our income, sales and other transaction taxes by U.S. federal and state authorities. Outcomes from these audits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. N1 Item 2 Properties
