CIK: 1681459
Company Name: TECHNIPFMC PLC
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2020-03-03
Accession Number: 0001681459-20-000004


ITEM 1 BUSINESS Overview TechnipFMC plc, a public limited company incorporated and organized under the laws of England and Wales, with registered number 09909709, and with registered office at 1 St. Paul Churchyard, London EC4M 8AP, United Kingdom ( TechnipFMC , the Company, we, or our ) is a global energy service company with a portfolio of solutions for the production and transformation of hydrocarbons and renewable energy sources. These solutions range from discreet products and services to fully integrated solutions based on proprietary technologies, with a clear focus to deliver greater efficiency across project lifecycles from concept to delivery and beyond. We have operational headquarters in Paris, France and Houston, Texas, United States. We operate across 3 business segments Subsea, Onshore Offshore, and Surface Technologies. Through these segments, we are levered to the 3 energy growth areas of unconventionals, liquefied natural gas ( LNG ), and deepwater developments. We have a unique and comprehensive set of capabilities to serve the oil and gas industry. With our proprietary technologies and production systems, integration expertise, and comprehensive solutions, we are transforming our clients project economics. Enhancement of the Company performance and competitiveness is a key comp1nt of this strategy that is achieved through technology and innovation differentiation, seamless execution, and reliance on simplification to drive costs down. We are targeting profitable and sustainable growth by seizing market growth opportunities and expanding our range of services, and we are managing our assets efficiently to ensure that we are well prepared to drive and benefit from the opportunities we are experiencing in many of the segments we serve. Each of our more than 37,000 employees is driven by a steadfast commitment to clients and a culture of purposeful innovation, challenging industry conventions, and finding new and better ways of working to unlock possibilities. This leads to fresh thinking, streamlined decisions, and smarter results, enabling us to achieve our vision of enhancing the performance of the world energy industry. History In March 2015, FMC Technologies, Inc., a U.S. Delaware corporation ( FMC Technologies ), and Technip S.A., a French soci t anonyme ( Technip ), signed an agreement to form an exclusive alliance and to launch Forsys Subsea, a 50 50 joint venture, that would unite the subsea skills and capabilities of 2 industry leaders. This alliance, which became operational on June 1, 2015, was established to identify new and innovative approaches to the design, delivery, and maintenance of subsea fields. Forsys Subsea brought the industry's most talented subsea professionals together early in operators project concept phase with the technical capabilities to design and integrate products, systems, and installation to significantly reduce the cost of subsea field development and enhance overall project economics. Based on the success of the Forsys Subsea joint venture and its innovative approach to integrated solutions, Technip and FMC Technologies announced in May 2016 that the companies would combine through a merger of equals to create a global subsea leader, TechnipFMC, that would drive change by redefining the production of oil and gas. The business combination was completed on January 16, 2017 (the Merger ), and on January 17, 2017, TechnipFMC began operating as a unified, combined company trading on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) and on the Eur1xt Paris Stock Exchange ( Eur1xt Paris ) under the symbol FTI. In 2017, our first year as a merged company, TechnipFMC secured several project awards as many operators moved forward with final investment decisions for major onshore projects and subsea developments. Several of the subsea awards incorporated the use of our integrated approach to project delivery, validating our unique business model aimed at lowering project costs and accelerating the delivery of initial hydrocarbon production. This was made possible by bringing together the complimentary subsea work scopes of the merged companies. 4 In 2018, TechnipFMC delivered the industry's first 3 full cycle, integrated projects and realized considerable growth in Subsea order inbound, driven in part by its unique integrated offering, iEPCI ( iEPCI ). For all of 2019, the value of integrated subsea awards to TechnipFMC more than doubled versus the prior year, representing more than 50 percent of all Subsea project order inbound. The increase was driven by a wider adoption of the integrated business model, particularly with those clients where we have unique alliances. With the industry most comprehensive and only truly integrated subsea market offering, we have continued to expand the deepwater opportunity set for our customers. TechnipFMC expertise does not end with the production of hydrocarbons. Because of its best in class Engineering and Construction ( E&C ) project design and execution capabilities, enabled by a portfolio of proprietary technologies, TechnipFMC continues to secure and deliver projects that further enable our clients to m1tize resources from liquefaction of gas, both onshore and on floating vessels, through refining and product facilities and with green chemistry and renewables. On August 26, 2019, the Company announced that it will separate into 2 diversified pure play market leaders TechnipFMC, focused on subsea and surface hydrocarbon production, and Technip Energies, focused on downstream engineering, procurement, and construction ( EPC ) project execution. The separation will enable both companies to benefit from distinct and compelling market opportunities across the energy value chain; dedicated focus of management, resources and capital; and unique value propositions with differentiated investment appeal. TechnipFMC will be a fully integrated technology and services provider, driving energy development across deepwater, conventional, and unconventional resources. The Company continues to successfully demonstrate leadership in integrated subsea project delivery and is focused on replicating this success through the development of integrated production models for the surface market. TechnipFMC is also poised to benefit from service opportunities resulting from the world largest installed base of subsea production equipment, umbilicals, risers, and flowlines. Technip Energies will be a leading engineering and construction player, with a robust project delivery model, strong technical capabilities, and proven track record as demonstrated by the successful execution of some of the world most iconic EPC projects. The new company will continue to leverage its industry leading process technology portfolio, particularly in the areas of ethylene and hydrogen, while pursuing further opportunities to enhance and differentiate this portfolio. The Company continues to innovate and introduce new technologies across our portfolio of products and services. TechnipFMC strong operational performance in 2019 was driven by a relentless focus on operational execution, while our significant growth in project backlog provides improved visibility for our businesses for 2020 and beyond. BUSINESS SEGMENTS Subsea The Subsea segment provides integrated design, engineering, procurement, manufacturing, fabrication, installation, and life of field services for subsea systems, subsea field infrastructure, and subsea pipe systems used in oil and gas production and transportation. We are a fully integrated technology and services provider, continuing to drive responsible energy development. We are an industry leader in front end engineering and design ( FEED ), subsea production systems ( SPS ), subsea flexible pipe, and subsea umbilicals, risers, and flowlines ( SURF ). We also have the capability to install these products and related subsea infrastructure with our fleet of highly specialized vessels. By integrating the SPS and SURF work scopes, we are uniquely able to drive greater value to our clients through more efficient execution of the installation campaign. This, in conjunction with our strong commercial focus, has enabled the successful market introduction of an integrated subsea business model, iEPCI, which spans a project early phase design through the life of field. Our integrated business model is unlocking incremental opportunities and materially expanding the deepwater opportunity set. Since the first iEPCI project was awarded in 2016, market adoption of the business model has accelerated each year, and in 2019 we secured more than 75 percent of the industry integrated project awards. 5 Through integrated FEED studies, or iFEED ( iFEED ), we are uniquely positi1d to influence project concept and design. Using innovative solutions for field architecture, including standardized equipment, new technologies, and simplified installation, we can significantly reduce subsea development costs and accelerate time to first production. Our first mover advantage and ability to convert iFEED studies into iEPCI contracts, often as a direct award, creates a unique set of opportunities for the Company that are not available to our peers. This allows us to deliver a fully integrated and technologically differentiated subsea system, and to better manage the complete work scope through a single contracting mechanism and a single interface, yielding meaningful improvements in project economics and time to first oil. We continue to support our clients following project delivery by offering aftermarket and life of field services. Our wide range of capabilities and solutions, including integrated life of field, or iLOF ( iLOF ), allows TechnipFMC to help clients increase oil and gas recovery and equipment uptime while reducing overall cost. Our iLOF offering is designed to unlock the full potential of subsea infrastructures during operations by transforming the way subsea services are delivered and proactively addressing the challenges operators face over the life of subsea fields. We provide production optimization, asset life extension insight, proactive debottlenecking, and condition based maintenance. Our Subsea business depends on our ability to maintain a cost effective and efficient production system, achieve planned equipment production targets, successfully develop new products, and meet or exceed stringent performance and reliability standards. Principal Products and Services Subsea Production Systems. Our systems are used in the offshore production of crude oil and natural gas. Subsea systems are placed on the seafloor and are used to control the flow of crude oil and natural gas from the reservoir to a host processing facility, such as a floating production facility, a fixed platform, or an onshore facility. Our subsea production systems and products include subsea trees, chokes and flow modules, manifold pipeline systems, control and data management systems, well access systems, multiphase and wetgas meters, and additional technologies. The design and manufacture of our subsea systems requires a high degree of technical expertise and innovation. Some of our systems are designed to withstand exposure to the extreme hydrostatic pressure of deepwater environments, as well as internal pressures of up to 20,000 pounds per square inch ( psi ) and temperatures of up to 400 F. The development of our integrated subsea production systems includes initial engineering design studies and field development planning and considers all relevant aspects and project requirements, including optimization of drilling programs and subsea architecture. Subsea Processing Systems . Our subsea processing systems, which include subsea boosting, subsea gas compression, and subsea separation, are designed to accelerate production, increase recovery, extend field life, and or lower operators production costs for greenfield, subsea tie backs and brownfield applications. To provide these products, systems, and services, we utilize our engineering, project management, procurement, manufacturing, and assembly and test capabilities. Flexible Pipe and Umbilical Supply. We engineer and manufacture flexible pipes as well as steel tube, thermoplastic hose, power and communication and hybrid (a combination of steel tube, thermoplastic hose, and electrical cables) umbilicals. TechnipFMC vessels will typically perform the installation of the flexible pipes and umbilicals, but we also sell these products directly to oil companies or to other vessel operators. Vessels. We operate a fleet of 18 vessels. Of the 18 vessels currently in operation, we have sole ownership of ten vessels, ownership of six vessels as part of joint ventures, and operate 2 vessels under long term charter. We wholly own four pipelay support vessels and jointly own six subsea construction vessels. The jointly owned vessels operate under a 50 50 ownership structure exclusively in the Brazilian market. These vessels are primarily contracted to Petr leo Brasileiro S.A. Petrobras ( Petrobras ), principally to install umbilical and flexible flowlines and risers to connect subsea wells to floating production units across a range of water depths. We also own 3 subsea construction vessels and have long term charter agreements for 2 other construction vessels. The Company also owns 3 dive support vessels. Subsea Services. We provide a portfolio of services that improve uptime, lower lifecycle costs and increase recovery over the life of the field for our clients subsea assets. These services include (i) provision of exploration 6 and production wellhead systems and services; (ii) remotely operated vehicle ( ROV ) services; (iii) installation and well completion rig services; (iv) maintenance services for test, modification, refurbishment, and upgrade of subsea equipment and tooling; (v) asset integrity services based on product and field data to optimize the performance of the subsea asset, including proactive inspection, maintenance, and repair ( IMR ) of subsea infrastructure; (vi) well access and intervention services, both rig based and vessel based (riserless light well intervention or RLWI ); (vii) production management services to enhance well and field production, including subsea multiphase boosting and real time virtual metering services; and (viii) well plug, abandonment and decommissioning. Our vision is to transform the customer experience with an agile services culture and grow our business across the life of the field. Key drivers of subsea services market activity are the inspection and maintenance of subsea infrastructure, driven in large part by aging infrastructure on mature fields. The need for well intervention services also continues to grow, with more than 6,500 wells operated globally. With our extensive experience in subsea equipment, our large installed base of subsea production equipment, our broad range of services, and our historical technical design and manufacturing leadership, we are in a unique position to offer integrated solutions across the life of field services combining asset light solutions (e.g. RLWI), digital services (e.g. data driven monitoring, surveillance and production management suite of applications), and leading edge automated systems (e.g. Schilling ROVs) to enhance the economics of producing fields through maximization of asset uptime, higher production volumes, and lower operating expense. Robotics, Controls and Automation. We design and manufacture ROVs and manipulator arms that are used in subsea drilling, construction, IMR, and life of field services. Our product offering includes electric and hydraulic work class ROVs, tether management systems, launch and recovery systems, remote manipulator arms, and modular control systems. We also provide support and services such as product training, pilot simulator training, spare parts, and technical assistance. We also provide electro hydraulic and electric production and intervention control systems, allowing accurate control and monitoring of subsea installations to ensure the highest production availability that can ensure safe and environmentally friendly field operations. These include the sensors, multiphase flow meters, digital infrastructure, integrity monitoring, control functionality, and automation features needed for subsea systems. Robotics capabilities are now being used in the control of manifold valves during production, which demonstrates a convergence of our technologies in order to provide better systems for our customers. Research, Engineering, Manufacturing and Supply Chain ( REMS ). REMS is an organization we formed in September of 2019 to support accelerated technology innovation, and product delivery improvements. We accomplish this by reducing the cycle time of engineering and manufacturing our products, including working with our suppliers to reduce their costs, and optimizing our processes and how we manage workflow. Through REMS, we are focused on challenging the existing technologies and implementing world class manufacturing practices, including LEAN and process automation, to improve reliability while reducing total product cost and lead time to delivery. Our REMS organization primarily supports our Subsea segment but is also integrated across our Surface Technologies business. Also this year, we established a Product Management function to further our capabilities to understand, define, and deliver the technologies and products of the future. This function will provide a complement to REMS, Subsea and Surface business, and will drive the understanding of customer requirements, competitive landscape, and investment prioritization. Capital Intensity Many of the systems and products we supply for subsea applications are highly engineered to meet the unique demands of our customers field properties and are typically ordered 1 to 2 years prior to installation. We often receive advance payments and progress billings from our customers to fund initial development and working capital requirements. Dependence on Key Customers Generally, our customers in the Subsea segment are major integrated oil companies, national oil companies, and independent exploration and production companies. 7 We actively pursue alliances with companies that are engaged in the subsea development of oil and natural gas to promote our integrated systems for subsea production. These alliances are typically related to the procurement of subsea production equipment, although some alliances are related to EPCI services. Development of subsea fields, particularly in deepwater environments, involves substantial capital investments. Operators have also sought the security of alliances with us to ensure timely and cost effective delivery of subsea and other energy related systems that provide integrated solutions to meet their needs. Our alliances establish important ongoing relationships with our customers. While these alliances do not contractually commit our customers to purchase our systems and services, they have historically led to, and we expect that they would continue to result in, such purchases. The commitment to our customers goes beyond project delivery, and we nurture these alliances with transparency and collaboration to better understand their needs to ensure customer success. No single Subsea customer accounted for 10% or more of our 2019 consolidated revenue. Competition We are the only fully integrated company that can provide the complete suite of subsea production equipment, umbilicals, and flowlines with the complete portfolio of installation services enabling us to develop a subsea field as a single company. Our company competes with companies that supply some of the comp1nts as well as installation companies. Our competitors include Aker Solutions ASA, Baker Hughes Company ( Baker Hughes ), Dril Quip, Inc., McDermott International, Inc. ( McDermott ), National Oilwell Varco, Oceaneering International, Inc., Saipem S.p.A. ( Saipem ), Schlumberger, Ltd. ( Schlumberger ), and Subsea 7 S.A. Seasonality In the North Sea, winter weather generally subdues drilling activity, reducing vessel utilization and demand for subsea services as certain activities cannot be performed. As a result, the level of offshore activity in our Subsea segment is negatively impacted in the first quarter of each year. Market Environment The volatile, and generally low, crude oil price environment over the last four years led many of our customers to reduce their capital spending plans or defer new deepwater projects. The reduction and deferral of projects resulted in delayed subsea project inbound for the industry. In response to the lower commodity prices and reduced cash flow, operators took actions needed to improve their subsea project economics, and suppliers, in turn, took the steps necessary to further reduce project break even levels by offering cost effective approaches for project developments. These actions continue. The rate of project sanctioning for new subsea developments has moved higher since the market trough as project economics and operator confidence have improved. Similarly to other parts of the market (e.g. onshore), the trajectory and pace of further recovery and expansion in the subsea market is subject to the allocation of capital our clients dedicate to developing offshore oil and gas fields amongst their entire portfolio of projects and drivers of capital expansion or discipline. The risk of project sanctioning delays is still present in the current environment; however, innovative approaches to subsea projects, like our iEPCI solution, have improved project economics, and many offshore discoveries can be developed economically at today crude oil prices. In the long term, deepwater development is expected to remain a significant part of many of our customers portfolios. Strategy With our proprietary technologies and production systems, integration expertise, and comprehensive solutions, we are transforming our clients project economics. We have used these capabilities to develop a new subsea commercial model that is transforming the way we interact with our customers and create value with them. Our strategy includes the following priorities Engagement in the conceptual design and integrated front end engineering, or iFEED, of subsea development projects to create value through technology and integration of scopes (iEPCI) by simplifying field architecture and accelerating both delivery schedules and time to first production; 8 Innovative research and development ( R&D ), often in collaboration with clients and partners, to develop leading products and technologies that deliver greater efficiency to the client, lower development costs, unlock stranded and or marginal fields, and enable frontier developments; Focus on selecting the right projects to ensure a strong and healthy backlog; Superior project execution capabilities allowing the Company to mobilize the right teams, assets, and facilities to capture and profitably execute complex subsea projects and services; Capitalize on combined competencies coming from alliances and partnerships with both clients and suppliers; and Leverage supplier relationships to optimize supply chain market dynamics and implement greater simplification and standardization in products and processes. TechnipFMC is a clear leader in the subsea industry. Our success has been built on our technological strength, innovation, focus on digitalization, and strong partnerships with major oil companies to expand market opportunities. Recent and Future Developments In 2019, our Subsea inbound orders increased more than 50 percent versus the prior year, driven by further adoption of the integrated model and growth in services activity. The value of integrated project awards also more than doubled from the levels we recorded in 2018. Subsea services continued to benefit from the industry's largest and expanding installed base, with growth in the year reflecting increased installation, asset refurbishment and well intervention activities. Subsea services remains on track for double digit growth in 2020. We continue to focus on performance improvement and optimization strategies that will improve our profitability. Our investments decisions fully support our business with technologies that will differentiate our portfolio. In December 2019, we completed the sale of the G1201 vessel as part of our overall strategy to optimize the profile and size of its subsea fleet. In addition to the sale transaction we also executed a Memorandum of Agreement which includes a Collaboration Agreement with the buyer that provides 5 years of exclusivity for a list of named subsea projects in a specific jurisdiction and the right of first refusal for other projects. This followed the announcement of our Strategic Collaboration Agreement with Allseas aimed at jointly pursuing specific deepwater projects where the assets, products and capabilities of both companies are complementary. This supports the Company intent to use collaboration agreements, where possible, to execute its differentiated iEPCI business model. We received the industry first award of a 20K high pressure, high temperature system for LLOG Shenandoah project in the Gulf of Mexico. This new technology was the result of our joint industry program that included 5 major operators. This was the first time the industry collaborated to develop a new subsea system focused on the delivery of a single part number and designed to handle hydrocarbons under the industry's most extreme pressure and temperature conditions to date. We have accelerated our digital journey to deliver an integrated digital thread from Front End to Services, thus enhancing the performance of our products and services as well as safety and asset integrity. With its presence all along the oil and gas value chain, TechnipFMC is well placed to leverage data to improve and enhance the performance of our clients assets, optimize operational costs, deliver predictive and preventive maintenance, and enable remote operations. Our inbound order growth for the full year was significantly better than the total Subsea market growth. This high level of growth came in the third year of a market recovery and is the highest annual growth rate we have experienced in a decade. Strength in project activity, as well as our expectation for double digit revenue growth in Subsea Services, provides the framework for 2020 Subsea orders to approach the level achieved in 2019, although this remains dependent on the timing of 1 or 2 major project awards. We expect our iEPCI capabilities to provide a competitive advantage as we deliver comprehensive and differentiated solutions. In addition, we anticipate the following longer term trends in the subsea market Increased market adoption of integrated subsea projects, leading to further penetration of our integrated business model and higher levels of iEPCI order activity for our Company; 9 Growing service opportunities, driven by (i) higher levels of project activity, (ii) increased asset integrity and production management activities focused on improving uptime and production volume and lowering emissions, and (iii) increased maintenance and intervention activity resulting from an expanding and aging installed equipment base; Smaller projects and direct awards will continue to contribute meaningfully to our order mix. In 2018 and 2019, these awards collectively represented just under 1 half of our total subsea inbound orders, with the remainder being publicly announced projects and subsea service activities. Subsea tiebacks are often part of this mix, and these shorter cycle brownfield expansions provide operators with faster paybacks and higher returns; There is a growing trend towards independent operators and new entrants undertaking subsea developments; we are a natural partner for this customer group because of our ability to offer fully integrated solutions; and Natural gas developments are growing in prominence. We believe that more than 20 percent of offshore capital expenditures could be directed at natural gas developments by early next decade. We also anticipate that 45 percent of gas production will come from offshore, with significant growth in the Middle East (shallow water) followed by Australia (deep water) in the next five years. We continue to work closely with our customers and believe that, in the context of lower oil prices, with our unique business model we can further reduce their project break even levels by offering cost effective approaches to their project developments and accelerate time to first oil and gas. Product Development In 2014, we entered into a joint development agreement with several major operators to develop common standards for subsea production equipment capable of operating at pressures as high as 20,000 psi and temperatures up to 350 F. This joint development agreement is delivering standardized design, materials, processes, and interfaces to provide improved reliability and operations over the life of the field. The first major achievement of this joint development effort, and further highlighting our technology based solutions focused on creating customer success, we delivered a complete production system for Shell high pressure and high temperature Appomattox field in the Gulf of Mexico in 2018, and Shell began producing from Appomattox in May of 2019. Technology development progressed on our Subsea 20 product platform, the next generation of subsea equipment, using designs that are significantly simpler, leaner, and smarter than current designs. These new products incorporate a modular product architecture and comp1nt level standardization to enable a flexible configure to order approach, reducing hardware delivery time for clients. The products are expected to deliver breakthroughs in the way subsea products are manufactured, assembled, installed, and maintained over the life of the field. The smaller, lighter products achieve up to a 50 percent reduction in size, weight, and part count, while maintaining the same or improved functionality. When combined with iEPCI, our powerful integrated approach to field architecture, and project execution, Subsea 20 improves project economics and unlocks first oil and gas faster. In addition to investments to develop lower cost production solutions, we also invest in the development of technology to expand our service portfolio. We have qualified new technology to enable the inspection of flexible risers and flowlines. We also are advancing subsea robotic productivity through the development of more efficient ROV systems that are easier to operate and maintain. Acquisitions and Investments In February 2018, we signed an agreement with the Island Offshore Group to acquire a 51 percent stake in Island Offshore wholly owned subsidiary, Island Offshore Subsea AS. Island Offshore Subsea AS provides RLWI project management and engineering services for plug and abandonment ( P&A ), riserless coiled tubing, and well completion operations. In connection with the acquisition of the controlling interest, TechnipFMC and Island Offshore entered into a strategic cooperation agreement to deliver RLWI services on a worldwide basis, which also include TechnipFMC RLWI capabilities. Island Offshore Subsea AS has been rebranded to TechnipFMC Island Offshore Subsea ( TIOS ) and is now the operating unit for TechnipFMC RLWI activities worldwide. 10 In March 2018, we announced a collaboration agreement with Magma Global Ltd. to develop a new generation of hybrid flexible pipe ( HFP ) for use in offshore applications. HFP is expected to provide increased strength and fatigue performance, while also achieving dramatic weight and cost reductions, for subsea fluid transport applications. As part of the collaboration, TechnipFMC purchased a minority stake in Magma Global. We are advanced in creating our new HFP and continue working towards important milest1s in the qualification process. In January 2019, we acquired a new dive support vessel, the Deep Discoverer, to replace a vessel we retired in support of our fleet optimization strategy. The acquisition was somewhat opportunistic, but allowed us to obtain a high quality, top tier vessel significantly below newbuild cost and without a protracted delivery schedule. The vessel will operate primarily in the dive construction, inspection, maintenance and repair markets in the North Sea and can also support our iEPCI initiative in the region. In December 2019, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in Technip Odebrecht PLSV CV ( TOP CV ). TOP CV was formed as a joint venture between Technip SA and Ocyan SA to provide pipeline installation ships to Petrobras for its work in oil and gas fields offshore Brazil. Onshore Offshore The Onshore Offshore segment offers a full range of design, project management and construction services to our customers spanning the entire downstream value chain, including technical consulting, concept selection, and final acceptance test. We have been successful in meeting our clients needs given our proven skills in managing large EPC projects. When our announced separation is complete, this segment will be the cornerst1 of Technip Energies. Our Onshore business combines the study, engineering, procurement, construction, and project management of the entire range of onshore facilities related to the production, treatment, and transportation of oil and gas, the transformation of petrochemicals such as ethylene, polymers, and fertilizers, as well as other activities, and the commercialization of renewable energy and feedstocks. We conduct large scale, complex, and challenging projects that involve extreme climatic conditions and non conventional resources and are subject to increasing environmental and regulatory performance standards. We rely on technological know how for process design and engineering, either through the integration of technologies from leading alliance partners or through our own technologies. We seek to integrate and develop advanced technologies and reinforce our strong project execution capabilities in each of our Onshore activities. Our Offshore business combines the study, engineering, procurement, construction, and project management within the entire range of fixed and floating offshore facilities, many of which were the first of their kind, including the development of floating liquefied natural gas ( FLNG ) facilities. Principal Products and Services Onshore E&C. We design and build different types of facilities for the development of onshore oil and gas, processing facilities, and product export systems. In addition, we renovate existing facilities by modernizing production equipment and control systems, in accordance with applicable environmental standards. Refining. We are a leader in the design and construction of oil refineries. We manage many aspects of these projects, including the preparation of concept and feasibility studies, and the design, construction, and start up of complex refineries or single refinery units. We have been involved in the design and construction of over 30 new refineries or major refinery expansions, and are 1 of the few contractors in the world to have built seven new refineries since 2000. We have extensive experience with technologies related to refining and have completed more than 840 individual process units within major expansion or refurbishment projects, implemented in more than 75 countries. As a result of our cooperation with the most highly renowned technology licensors and catalyst suppliers and our strong technological expertise and refinery consulting services, we are able to provide an independent selection of appropriate technologies to meet specific project and client targets. These technologies result in direct benefits to the client, such as emission control and environmental protection, including hydrogen and carbon dioxide management, sulfur recovery units, water treatment, and zero flaring. With a strong record of accomplishment in refinery optimization projects, we have experience and competence in relevant technological fields in the oil refining sector. 11 Natural Gas Treatment and Liquefaction. We offer a complete range of services across the gas value chain to support our clients capital projects from concept to delivery. Our capabilities include the design and construction of facilities for LNG, gas to liquids ( GTL ), natural gas liquids ( NGL ) recovery, and gas treatment. In the field of LNG, we pi1ered base load LNG plant construction through the first ever facility in Arzew, Algeria. Working with our partners, we have constructed facilities that can deliver more than 105 million metric tonnes per annum ( Mtpa ), which is a significant portion of the global liquefaction capacity in operation today. TechnipFMC brings knowledge and conceptual design capabilities that are unique among engineering and construction companies involved in LNG. We have engineered and delivered a broad range of LNG plants, including mid scale and very large scale plants, both onshore and offshore, and plants in remote locations. We have experience in the complete range of services for LNG receiving terminals from conceptual design studies to EPC. Reference projects include LNG trains in Qatar (the six largest ever constructed), Yemen, and a series of mid scale LNG plants in China, and together with our joint venture partners, we delivered first phase of the Yamal LNG plant ( Yamal ) in the Russian Arctic with all 3 trains put in production before the end of 2018. During 2019, the Arctic LNG 2 project for Novatek was sancti1d following award of the EPC contract to us, together with our joint venture partners. We are also well positi1d in the GTL market and are 1 of the few contractors with experience in large GTL facilities. We have unique experience in delivering plants using Sasol Slurry Phase Distillate technology, and we have provided front end engineering design for the Fischer Tropsch section of more than 60 percent of commercial liquids conversion capacity worldwide. Our clients also benefit from our development of environmental protection measures, including low nitrogen oxide and sulfur oxide emissions, waste water treatment, and waste management. We specialize in the design and construction of large scale gas treatment complexes as well as existing facility upgrades. Gas treatment includes the removal of carbon dioxide and sulfur comp1nts from natural gas using chemical or physical solvents, sulfur recovery, and gas sweetening processes based on the use of an amine solvent. The Company ranks among the top contractors in the field in relation to sulfur recovery units installed in refineries or natural gas processing plants. Given our long term experience in the field of sour gas processing, we can provide support to clients for the overall evaluation of the gas sweetening sulfur recovery chain and the selection of optimum technologies. Ethylene. We hold proprietary technologies and are a leader in the design, construction, and commissioning of ethylene production plants. We design steam crackers, from concept stage through construction and commissioning, for both new plants (including mega crackers) and plant expansions. We have a portfolio of the latest generation of commercially proven technologies and are uniquely positi1d to be both a licensor and an EPC contractor. Our technological developments have improved the energy efficiency in ethylene plants by improving thermal efficiency of the furnaces and reducing the compression power required per ton, thereby reducing carbon dioxide emissions per ton of ethylene by 30 percent over the last 25 years. Petrochemicals and Fertilizers. We are 1 of the world leaders in the process design, licensing, and realization of petrochemical units, including basic chemicals, intermediate and derivative plants. We provide a range of services that includes process technology licensing and development and full EPC complexes. We license a portfolio of chemical technologies through long standing alliances and relationships with leading manufacturing companies and technology providers. We have research centers to develop and test technologies for polymer and petrochemical applications, where fully automated pilot plants gather design data to scale up processes for commercialization. Hydrogen. Hydrogen is the most widely used industrial gas in the refining, chemical, and petrochemical industries, and is also widely used in the production of cleaner transport fuels. We offer a single point of responsibility for the design and construction of hydrogen and synthesis gas production units, with solutions ranging from Process Design Packages to full lump sum turnkey projects. We also offer services for maintenance and performance optimization of running units. We have solutions in place for carbon capture readiness in future hydrogen plants, targeting more than a 2 thirds reduction in carbon dioxide release from the hydrogen plant. Fixed Platforms. We offer a broad range of fixed platform solutions in shallow water, including (i) large conventional platforms with pile steel jackets whose topsides are installed offshore either by heavy lift vessel or floatover; (ii) small, conventional platforms installed by small crane vessel; (iii) steel gravity based structure platforms, generally with floatover topsides; and (iv) small to large self installing platforms. Floating Production Units. We offer a broad range of floating platform solutions for moderate to ultra deepwater applications, including 12 Spar Platforms Capable of operating in a wide range of water depths, the Spar is a low motion floater that can support full drilling with dry trees or with tender assist and flexible or steel catenary risers. The Spar topside is installed offshore either by heavy lift vessel or floatover. Semi Submersible Platforms These platforms are well suited for oil field developments where subsea wells drilled by a mobile offshore drilling unit are appropriate. Semi Submersibles can operate in a wide range of water depths and may have full drilling and large topside capabilities. We have our own unique design of low motion Semi Submersible platforms that can accommodate dry trees. Tension Leg Platforms ( TLP ) An appropriate platform for deepwater drilling and production in water depths up to approximately 1,500 meters, the TLP can be configured with full drilling or with tender assist and is generally a dry tree unit. The TLP and our topside can be integrated onto the substructure in a cost effective manner at quayside. Floating Production, Storage and Offloading ( FPSO ). Working with our construction partners, we have delivered some of the largest FPSOs in the world. FPSOs enable offshore production and storage of oil which is then transported by a tanker where pipeline export is uneconomic or technically challenged (e.g., ultra deepwater). FPSOs utilize onshore processes adapted to a floating marine environment. They can support large topsides and hence large production capacities. Leveraging our industry leading capabilities in gas m1tization, particularly FLNG, we are currently well positi1d to leverage the global offshore gas cycle with gas FPSOs. Floating Liquefied Natural Gas ( FLNG ). FLNG is an innovative alternative to traditional onshore LNG plants and is suitable for remote and stranded gas fields that were previously deemed uneconomical. FLNG is a commercially attractive approach to the m1tization of offshore gas fields. It avoids the cost of building and operating long distance pipelines and extensive onshore infrastructure. We pi1ered the FLNG industry and are the only contractor to integrate all of the core activities required to deliver an FLNG project LNG process, offshore facilities, loading systems, and subsea infrastructure. We delivered the industry first and largest FLNG facilities and are currently executing ENI Coral South FLNG, which will be installed offshore Mozambique in East Africa. Capital Intensity Our Onshore Offshore business executes turnkey contracts on a lump sum or reimbursable basis through engineering, procurement, construction, and project management services on both brownfield and greenfield developments and projects. We can execute EPC contracts through sole responsibility, joint ventures, or consortiums with other companies. We often receive advance payments and progress billings from our customers to fund initial development and working capital requirements. However, our working capital balances can vary significantly through the project lifecycle depending on the payment terms and timing on contracts. Dependence on Key Customers Generally, our Onshore Offshore customers are major integrated oil companies or national oil companies. We have developed long term relationships with our main clients around our portfolio of technologies, expertise in project management, and strong execution. Our customers have sought the security of partnerships with us to ensure timely and cost effective delivery of their projects. 1 customer, JSC Yamal LNG, represented more than 10 percent of 2019 consolidated revenue. We do not anticipate JSC Yamal LNG representing more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenue beyond 2019 as the project nears completion. We consolidate all revenue from the JSC Yamal LNG partnership, including revenue associated with the minority partners of the joint venture. Competition In the onshore market, we face a large number of competitors, including U.S. companies (Bechtel Corporation, Fluor Corporation,, KBR, Inc. ( KBR ), and McDermott), Asian and Australian companies (Chiyoda Corporation, JGC Corporation, Hyundai Oilbank, Samsung Engineering Co., Ltd, SK Energy Co., Ltd and WorleyParsons Limited), European companies (John Wood Group plc, Maire Tecnimont Group, Petrofac, Ltd., Saipem, and Tecnicas Reunidas, S.A.),. In addition, we compete against smaller, specialized, and locally based engineering and construction companies in certain countries or for specific units such as petrochemicals. 13 Competition in the Offshore market is relatively fragmented and includes various players with different core capabilities, including offshore construction contractors, shipyards, leasing contractors, and local yards in Asia Pacific, the Middle East, and Africa. Competitors include China Offshore Oil Engineering Co., Ltd., Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co., Ltd., Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., Ltd., JGC Corporation, KBR, McDermott, MODEC Inc., Saipem, and Samsung Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. Seasonality Our Onshore business is generally not impacted by seasonality. Our Offshore business could be impacted by seasonality in the North Sea and other harsh environment regions during the offshore installation campaign at the end of a project. Market Environment The onshore market is impacted by changes in oil and gas prices, but is typically more resilient than offshore markets. Indeed, some downstream markets have benefited from low commodity prices where market fundamentals are influenced by other economic factors (e.g., petrochemicals and fertilizers that are linked to global growth). This market dynamic is mostly present in developing countries with rapidly growing energy demand (in particular, Asia) and countries with abundant oil and gas reserves that have decided to expand downstream (in particular, the Middle East and Russia). The onshore market remains relatively small in Western Europe with a diversity of projects, including a second generation of bio ethanol plants. The North American onshore market is experiencing a strong recovery in the wake of the oil and gas shale revolution. The offshore market is more directly impacted by changes in oil prices. Offshore fields in the Gulf of Mexico, the Middle East, and the North Sea were the traditional backb1 for investments in the last decade. Recent discoveries of offshore fields with reserves in other regions such as Brazil, Australia, and East Africa are expected to become drivers of increased investment. In the long term, gas is expected to become a bigger portion of the global energy mix, requiring new investments in the upstream industry. Strategy Our strategy is based on the following Selectivity of clients, projects, and geographies, which serves to maintain early engagement, leading to influence over technological choices, design considerations, and project specifications that make projects economically viable; Technology driven differentiation with strong project management, which eliminates or significantly reduces technical and project risks, leading to both schedule and cost certainty without compromising safety; and Excellence in project execution, because of our global, multi center project delivery model complemented by deep partnerships and alliances to ensure the best possible execution for complex projects. TechnipFMC Onshore Offshore segment continually invests in innovation and technology. The Company is at the forefront of digital solutions due in part to our investment in 3D models, often referred to as digital twin, and interfaces. Recent and Future Developments In response to industry challenges to improve project economics in the Offshore market, we are continuing our cost reduction efforts to align capacity and capabilities with market demands. As such, in 2018 we sold our interest in the Pori Offshore yard in Finland. Onshore market activity continues to provide a tangible set of opportunities, including natural gas, refining, and petrochemical projects. 14 Activity in LNG is fueled by higher demand for natural gas, a fuel source that continues to command a greater share of global energy demand. Natural gas will play an essential role as an energy transition fuel, helping to meet the increasing demand for energy while lowering greenhouse gases when compared to current fuel sources. This trend is structural, driven by market preference for cleaner energy sources and the need to satisfy growing domestic demand in markets such as Asia and the Middle East. To meet this demand, we believe that large gas projects will need to be sancti1d in the near future, as evidenced by both the significant increase in pre FEED and FEED contract awards and higher levels of pre bid project planning experienced in 2019. The award of Novatek Arctic LNG 2 project and its sanction in late 2019 confirmed this trend. As onshore market activity levels remain stable, it provides our business with the opportunity to engage early with our clients and pursue additional front end engineering studies, which serve to optimize project economics while also mitigating risks during project execution. Market opportunities for downstream front end engineering studies and full EPC projects in both LNG and refining are most prevalent in the Middle East, Africa, and Asia. We continue to track near term prospects for petrochemical and fertilizer projects as well. We believe this broad opportunity set could generate additional inbound orders in the coming years. In response to an increase in demand for gas, Offshore continued as a leader in gas FPSO projects. In addition to the ongoing Karish project for Energean, we were awarded the EPCI contract for BP Tortue gas FPSO, which will be deployed offshore West Africa. Product Development We are positi1d as a premier provider of project execution and technology solutions, which enables our customers to unlock resources at advantaged capital and operating economics. We invest in these main Onshore R&D areas (i) the development of process technology and equipment for economy of scale; (ii) continuous improvement of our proprietary process technologies and other solutions to reduce operating and investment cost; and (iii) diversification of our proprietary technology offering. Our Offshore R&D efforts are focused on improving the economics of our clients diverse fixed and floating platform projects. Additionally, to further reduce operating and investment costs, we continue to progress the development of robotic solutions for offshore platforms and work towards a standard and adaptable design for Normally Unmanned Installations ( NUI ). We are also evaluating the various opportunities that will emerge as the industry and societal demands shift as part of the energy transition. The Company continues to assess and implement the best digital technologies to support the business. Acquisitions and Investments No acquisitions or significant investments occurred during 2019 or 2018. Surface Technologies The Surface Technologies segment designs, manufactures, and services products and systems used by companies involved in land and shallow water exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. Such products and systems include (i) wellhead systems, (ii) hydraulic fracturing systems, including fracturing valves, pumps, rigid flowlines, and flexible flowlines, (iii) production, separation, and flow processing systems, and (iv) measurement products and integrated systems. We manufacture most of our products internally and on facilities located worldwide. Principal Products and Services Upstream Production. Our upstream production offering includes well control, safety and integrity systems, multiphase meter modules, in line separation and processing systems, and standard pumps. These offerings are differentiated by our comprehensive portfolio of in house compact, modular, and digital technologies, and are designed to enhance field project economics and reduce operating expenditures with an integrated system that spans from wellhead to pipeline. Our high efficiency solutions, such as our separation portfolio and measurement technologies, combined with our expertise in modularization, enable our customers to achieve first production faster with fully optimized and environmentally conscious, compact systems. 15 Well Control and Integrity Systems We supply control comp1nts and safety systems designed to safely and efficiently run either a wellpad, modules on an offshore platform, or a production facility. Our systems are based on standard, field proven building blocks and designed for minimal maintenance during life of field operations. Surface Multiphase Meter Our multiphase meters ( MPMs ) are a collection of technologically advanced innovations that provide a differentiated approach to multiphase measurement. The patented technology in our MPMs offers many unique features that provide a step change in allocation measurement and allows for continuous surveillance of wells across a full range of operating conditions. Our MPMs provide real time data to a central facility, or our cloud portal, for production reporting and remote notification and system troubleshooting. Separation and Processing Systems TechnipFMC provides industry leading technology for the separation of oil, gas, sand, and water. These solutions are used in onshore production facilities and on offshore platforms worldwide. Our family of separation products delivers client success by increasing efficiency and throughput and reducing the footprint of processing facilities. Our separation systems offering includes internal comp1nts for oil and gas multiphase separation, in line deliquidisers, and solids removal, as well as fully assembled separation modules and packages designed and fabricated for oil and gas separation, fracturing flowback treatment, solids removal, and primary produced water treatment. Standard Pumps and Skid Systems TechnipFMC provides complete skid solutions, from design consultation through startup and commissioning. We offer a diverse line of reciprocating pumps, customized according to the application with pressure ranges available up to 10,000 psi and flow rates up to 1,500 gpm. Automation and Digital Systems TechnipFMC provides hardware and software solutions to automate and provide simple human interfaces for a number of its critical products. These digital offerings help enable the removal of personnel from critical z1s either offshore or onshore. In addition the digital signatures from our products can then be interpreted and used via condition performance monitoring to eliminate unplanned downtime. Pressure Control. We design and manufacture equipment used in well completion and stimulation activities by major oilfield sevice and drilling companies, as well as by oil and gas exploration and production operators directly. Flowline TechnipFMC is a leading supplier of flowline products and services to the oilfield industry. From the original Chiksan and Weco products to our revolutionary equipment designs and integrated services, our family of flowline products and services provides our customers with reliable and durable pressure pumping equipment. Our facilities stock flowline products in the specific sizes, pressures, and materials common to each region. Our commitment is to help our customers worldwide attain maximum value from their pressure pumping assets by guaranteeing that the right products arrive at the job site in top working condition. Our total solutions approach includes the InteServ tracking and management system, mobile inspection and repair, strategically located service centers, and genuine Chiksan and Weco spare parts. Well Service Pumps TechnipFMC offers a diverse line of well service pumps for use in high pressure pumping operations such as hydraulic fracturing and stimulation, including triplex and quintuplex pumps, each with its own industry leading features, including (i) heavy duty power ends, paired with main journal roller bearings and heavy duty rod journal bearings, (ii) heavy duty crankshafts, (iii) fluid cylinders, with accessible packing and valves, and (iv) made to order pumps. Our pumps can withstand some of the harshest operating conditions, with pressure ranges up to 20,000 psi and flow rates up to 1,500 gallons per minute. All of our pumps are supported by dedicated service staff. We have the industry largest fleet of mobile units to perform complete inspection and repair services at customer locations around the world. The mobile services include inspection, testing, repair, documentation, and certification, with the goal of extending product life and reducing operator costs. Drilling and Completion. We provide a full range of drilling and completion systems for both standard and custom engineered applications. The customer base of our drilling and completion offerings are oil and gas exploration and production companies. Surface Wellheads and Production Trees Our products are used to control and regulate the flow of crude oil and natural gas from the well. The wellhead is a system of spools and sealing devices from which the entire downhole well string hangs and provides the structural support for surface production trees. Production trees are comprised of valves, actuators and chokes which can be combined in both vertical and horizontal configurations, depending on customer specific requirements. 16 Surface wellheads and production trees are per well systems which are designed for onshore shale, onshore conventional, and offshore shallow water platform applications, and are typically sold directly to exploration and production operators during the drilling and completion phases of the well lifecycle. Our surface wellhead and production tree systems are used worldwide, and we are 1 of the few companies that provide global coverage and a full range of system configurations, including (i) conventional wellheads, (ii) Unihead drill thru wellheads designed for faster installation and drill time optimization, (iii) high pressure, high temperature ( HPHT ) systems for extreme production applications, and (iv) steam assisted gravity drainage ( SAGD ) and cyclic steam injection ( CSS ) thermal systems for heavy oil applications. We also provide services associated to our surface wellhead and production tree portfolio including service personnel and rental tooling for wellhead and production tree installation and life of field repair, refurbishment, and general maintenance. Our wellhead and production tree business relies on our ability to successfully provide the necessary field operations coverage, responsiveness, and reliability to prevent downtime and nonproductive time during the drilling and completion phases. Fracturing Tree and Manifold Systems During the completion of a shale well, the well undergoes hydraulic fracturing. During this phase, durable and wear resistant wellsite equipment is temporarily deployed, designed to sustain the high pressure and highly erosive fracturing fluid which is pumped through the well into the formation. Our surface completions portfolio includes fracturing tree systems, fracturing valve greasing systems, hydraulic control units, fracturing manifold systems, and rigid and flexible flowlines. This equipment is temporarily laid out between the wellhead and the fracturing pump truck during hydraulic fracturing. These products are typically supplied to exploration and production operators who rent this equipment directly from us during the hydraulic fracturing activities. Associated with our fracturing equipment rental is fracturing rig up rig down field service personnel as well as oversight and operation of the equipment during the multiple fracturing stages for a shale well. TechnipFMC manifold solutions help increase operational efficiency for a pad site with multiple wells. Our TE Manifold provides time savings and pumping efficiencies when stimulating multiple wells on a single pad. The manifolds are installed and connected to multiple trees off the critical path, which allows our customers to fracture more stages per day in a compact footprint and efficiently move operations from 1 well to another, saving time and m1y. We also offer conventional and articulating arm manifold trailers which are used as the connection point between fracturing pump trucks and the fracturing flowline and manifold system. Our Ground Level Fracturing System is an essential tool for unconventional operators who use simultaneous operations to efficiently run completions in multi well pads. The innovative system design uses various lengths of trunkline to align the TE Manifold and fracturing tree at ground level, which minimizes the number of flowline connections for safer operation. We are a significant supplier of flowline pipework (rigid and flexible) that is used to move the fracturing product from the pump truck, via the manifold and into the fracturing trees. With a presence in all the major shale plays worldwide, our fracturing offering is recognized for its reliability and durability. Flowback and Well Testing Services After a shale well is hydraulically fractured, the well moves to the flowback phase in which much of the fracturing fluid pumped into the well flows back out through the wellhead and fracturing tree system. This phase lasts until the wellbore flow is adequate for flow through the production facilities downstream of the wellsite. Our flowback and well testing offering includes chokes, de sanders, and advanced well testing equipment and related services which are provided to exploration and production operators during the flowback phase. Fracturing Integrated Offering ( Frac I O ) We are 1 of the few oilfield service providers that can offer an integrated solution covering the fracturing through flowback phases. Our Frac I O provides our exploration and production customers with an integrated rental and service offering, including fracturing tree and manifold systems, as well as pressure control flowlines, flowback and well testing equipment, and field services. Services. We offer our customers a comprehensive suite of service packages to ensure optimal performance and reliability of our equipment. These service packages include all phases of the asset life cycle from the early planning stages through testing and installation, commissioning and operations, replacement and upgrade, maintenance, storage, preservation, intervention, integrity, decommissioning and abandonment. 17 Measurement Solutions. We design, manufacture, and service measurement products for the oil and gas industry. Our flow computers and control systems manage and monitor liquid and gas measurement for applications such as custody transfer, fiscal measurement, and batch loading and deliveries. Our FPSO metering systems provide the precision and reliability required for measuring large flow rates of marine loading operations. Our gas and liquid measurement systems are utilized in multiple energy related applications, including crude oil and natural gas production and transportation, refined product transportation, petroleum refining, and petroleum marketing and distribution. We combine advanced measurement technology with state of the art electronics and supervisory control systems to provide the measurement of both liquids and gases. This ensures processes operate efficiently while reducing operating costs and minimizing the risks associated with custody transfer. Loading Systems. We lead the market with reliable loading system solutions. We are globally recognized for setting technical and performance standards in fluid transfer, delivering liquid and gas loading systems to the most challenging applications, both onshore and offshore . TechnipFMC leads the market with 10,000 marine loading arms supplied, including more than 500 arms for LNG applications. We have developed unique offshore LNG transfer systems for all FLNG facilities operating to date. We offer equipment design and fabrication projects, as well as services over the life of our systems. Our proven ability to innovate, coupled with our modern manufacturing and assembly techniques, serve as the foundation for the future development of fluid transfer systems capable of operating in the most hostile and challenging environments. By offering both types of products covering the full range of midstream and downstream applications, we can recommend and provide the best solution to our clients. Capital Intensity Surface Technologies manufactures most of its products, resulting in a reliance on manufacturing locations throughout the world, including fully owned manufacturing hubs in Stephenville, Texas, United States and Singapore, and a wide global ne2rk of third party suppliers. We also maintain a large quantity of rental equipment related to our drilling & completion and pressure control offerings. Dependence on Key Customers No single Surface Technologies customer accounted for 10% or more of our 2019 consolidated revenue. Competition Surface Technologies is a market leader for many of our products and services. Some of the factors that distinguish us from other companies in the same sector include our technological innovation, reliability, product quality, and ability to integrate across a broad portfolio scope. Surface Technologies competes with other companies that supply surface production equipment and pressure control products. Some of our major competitors in Surface Technologies include Baker Hughes, Cactus, Inc., Forum Energy Technologies, Inc., Gardner Denver, Inc., Schlumberger, and The Weir Group plc. Market Environment Surface Technologies performance is typically driven by variations in global drilling activity, creating a dynamic environment. Operating results can be further impacted by pressure pumping activity and the completions intensity of shale applications in the Americas. The North America shale market is sensitive to oil price fluctuations. For a global oilfield service company such as ourselves, this is partially offset by the less cyclical drilling activity in the international markets where most of the activity is driven by national oil companies (NOCs), which tend to maintain longer term and more capital intense drilling programs. Global activity is still below levels achieved in the prior industry cycle and pricing remains competitive. Drilling activity in North America during 2019 declined approximately 12% compared to 2018, in terms of rig count and number of wells drilled. Completion activity contracted approximately 10% in 2019 in terms of number of wells fractured and a decrease of approximately 7% in 2019 in terms of pressure pumping horsepower demand. The activity decline was driven by pipeline takeaway capacity constraints, lower commodity prices, and lower spending by our customers. 18 Our business outside of the Americas continued to experience competitive pricing pressure throughout much of 2019. We believe market pricing has since stabilized and expect this more stable pricing environment to continue throughout 2020. Confidence in an improved outlook for our business, based on an expected 4% to 5% increase in rig count and number of wells drilled in 2020, is further supported by the strong growth experienced in inbound orders and backlog in late 2019, about 25% inbound increase in Q4 compared to the average in Q1 to Q3 We believe that the Middle East, Asia Pacific, and Northern Europe are best poised for new order growth. Strategy Our strategy is focused on being a leading provider of best cost and high performance integrated assets and services for our customers in the drilling, completion, upstream production, and midstream transportation sectors. We distinguish our offering by combining four elements innovative product design, exceptional customer experience, leading digital tools, and integrated systems. We have developed the digital tools and customer centric organizational culture that help enable customer success. Our system integration capabilities and automation technologies (i) reduce cycle time, lowering both capital and operating expenditures and allowing our customers to achieve first oil faster, and (ii) optimize the production process, minimizing facility footprint, manual interventions, and environmental impacts. Recent and Future Developments We continue to operate in a challenging environment as global activity is still below levels achieved in the prior industry cycle and pricing remains competitive. In 2019 well completion activity in North America moved lower, negatively impacting demand for pressure control equipment. The activity decline was driven by pipeline takeaway capacity constraints, lower commodity prices, and lower operator budgets. North American drilling and completion activity continued to move higher throughout 2018, peaking in the first quarter of 2019, and then declining throughout the remainder of 2019. Forecasts for 2020 activity are heavily dependent on commodity prices. Our current outlook is that activity in early 2020 will remain near the fourth quarter of 2019 exit levels and then gradually increase in the second half of the year. Outside of the Americas, drilling and completion activity increased 7 percent from 2018 to 2019 and is now planned to stabilize on a 4 to 5 percent increase in the next 3 years. Product Development In 2019, we expanded our desanding product offering by introducing our Desander Pro which can handle up to 30 percent higher drill out sand volumes during the flowback phase in shale applications. We are in the final stages of testing for our high gas desander, specifically designed for gas shale plays in Canada and the United States and we have high hopes that this technology can be utilized in conventional applications. We have introduced a number of products that are specifically orientated to improving the safety and efficiency on the Fracturing Pad, including SAFlex large bore flexible Fracturing lines, 7 Check Valves, Speedloc Quick Connector for wireline intervention. These new products will all become important element in our integrated fracturing offering. Further, we have expanded our suite of high pressure, high temperature wellheads and trees, and continue to expand our digital product offering with automated desanding dumps, tank level monitoring, automatic valve greasing units, and automated well testing system, all in an effort to further reduce manning and increase remote oversight of drilling and completion operations. Acquisitions and Investments In October 2017, we announced an agreement to acquire Plexus Holding plc ( Plexus ) wellhead exploration equipment and services business for jack up applications. In conjunction with our global footprint and market presence, this portfolio expansion in the mudline and high pressure, high temperature arena has enabled us to be a leading provider of products and services to the global jack up exploration drilling market. This acquisition fits within our strategy to extend and strengthen our position in exploration drilling products and services while leveraging our global field presence. The acquisition closed in the first quarter of 2018. The business has been integrated into our Surface Technologies segment, including the transfer of key personnel from Plexus, with their specialized expertise, to ensure continuity and ongoing customer support. The business continues to operate from its existing location in Dyce, Aberdeen, United Kingdom. 19 In December 2017, we opened a new 18,000 square meter facility in Abu Dhabi Industrial City 2, which has been further expanded in 2019 to provide customer inventory management services and position the Company for the construction of integrated skids and modules in support of our Production Systems business. In June 2018, we broke ground on a new 52,000 square meter facility in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. These facilities are part of our continued investment in the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia to reinforce our leading position in delivering local solutions that extend asset life and improve project returns. They position us to respond to the expected increase in activity for Abu Dhabi National Oil Company ( ADNOC ) and Saudi Aramco in 2020 and beyond while strengthening our capabilities, providing a solid platform for us to grow our integrated offerings in this region, including multiple product lines and aftermarket services that are key to our growth strategy. The new facilities will offer a broader range of capabilities and greater value add in country, supporting our full portfolio with high technology equipment in the drilling, completion, production, and pressure control sectors. OTHER BUSINESS INFORMATION RELEVANT TO OUR BUSINESS SEGMENTS Sources and Availability of Raw Materials Our business segments purchase carbon steel, stainless steel, aluminum, and steel castings and forgings from the global marketplace. We typically do not use single source suppliers for the majority of our raw material purchases; however, certain geographic areas of our businesses, or a project or group of projects, may heavily depend on certain suppliers for raw materials or supply of semi finished goods. We believe the available supplies of raw materials are adequate to meet our needs. Research and Development We are engaged in R&D activities directed toward the improvement of existing products and services, the design of specialized products to meet customer needs, and the development of new products, processes, and services. A large part of our product development spending has focused on the improved design and standardization of our Subsea and Onshore Offshore products to meet our customer needs. Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property We own a number of patents, trademarks, and licenses that are cumulatively important to our businesses. As part of our ongoing R&D focus, we seek patents when appropriate for new products, product improvements, and related service innovations. We have approximately 6,800 issued patents and pending patent applications worldwide. Further, we license intellectual property rights to or from third parties. We also own numerous trademarks and trade names and have approximately 550 registrations and pending applications worldwide. We protect and promote our intellectual property portfolio and take actions we deem appropriate to enforce and defend our intellectual property rights. We do not believe, however, that the loss of any 1 patent, trademark, or license, or group of related patents, trademarks, or licenses would have a material adverse effect on our overall business. Employees As of December 31, 2019, we had more than 37,000 employees. Segment and Geographic Financial Information The majority of our consolidated revenue and segment operating profits are generated in markets outside of the United States. Each segment revenue is dependent upon worldwide oil and gas exploration, production and petrochemical activity. Financial information about our segments and geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference from Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements in I, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Order Backlog Information regarding order backlog is incorporated herein by reference from the section entitled Inbound Orders and Order Backlog in I, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 20 Website Access to Reports and Proxy Statement Our Annual Reports on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, Proxy Statements, and Forms 3, 4, and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, and amendments to each of those reports and statements, are available free of charge through our website at www.technipfmc.com, under Investors as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). Alternatively, our reports may be accessed through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. Unless expressly noted, the information on our website or any other website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10 K and should not be considered part of this Annual Report on Form 10 K or any other filing we make with the SEC. 21 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Information regarding our executive officers called for by Item 401(b) of Regulation S K is hereby included in , Item 1 Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following table indicates the names and ages of our executive officers as of March 2, 2020 , including all offices and positions held by each in the past five years Name Age Current Position and Business Experience (Start Date) Douglas J. Pferdehirt 1 56 Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (2019) Chief Executive Officer (2017) President and Chief Executive Officer of FMC Technologies (2016) President and Chief Operating Officer of FMC Technologies (2015) Maryann T. Mannen 1 57 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (2017) Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of FMC Technologies (2014) Dianne B. Ralston 1 53 Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary (2017) Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary of FMC Technologies (2015) Justin Rounce 1 53 Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer (2018) President Valves & Measurement for Schlumberger Limited (2018) Senior Vice President Marketing & Technology for Schlumberger Limited (2016) Vice President Marketing & Chief Technology Officer for Cameron International Corporation (2015) Agnieszka Kmieciak 1 46 Executive Vice President People and Culture (2018) HR Director Production Group for Schlumberger Limited (2017) Talent Manager and Workforce Planning Manager for Schlumberger Limited (2015) Arnaud Pi ton 1 46 President Subsea (2018) Executive Vice President People and Culture (2017) President Asia Pacific Region of Technip (2016) Chief Operating Officer, Subsea Asia Pacific Region of Technip (2014) Richard G. Alabaster 1 59 Transition Manager (2019) President Surface Technologies (2017) Vice President Surface Technologies of FMC Technologies (2015) Barry Glickman 1 51 President Surface Technologies (2019) President Engineering, Manufacturing and Supply Chain (2017) Vice President Subsea Services of FMC Technologies (2015) Nello Uccelletti 1 66 President and Advisor to the CEO (2019) President Onshore Offshore (2017) President Onshore Offshore of Technip (2014) Catherine MacGregor 1 47 President Onshore Offshore (2019) President New Ventures (2019) President Drilling Group of Schlumberger Limited (2017) President Reservoir Characterization of Schlumberger Limited (2016) President Europe and Africa Region of Schlumberger Limited (2013) Christophe B lorgeot 2 53 Senior Vice President, Corporate Engagement (2018) Vice President, Corporate Communications (2017) Senior Vice President, Communications and CEO Office of Technip (2014) Krisztina Doroghazi 3 48 Senior Vice President, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer (2018) Senior Vice President, Financing Planning and Reporting of MOL Group (2015) __________________ 1 Member of the Executive Leadership Team and a Rule 3b 7 executive officer and Section 16 officer under the Exchange Act 2 Member of the Executive Leadership Team 3 Section 16 officer under the Exchange Act No family relationships exist among any of the above listed officers, and there are no arrangements or understandings between any of the above listed officers and any other person pursuant to which they serve as an officer. During the past 10 years, n1 of the above listed officers was involved in any legal proceedings as defined in Item 401(f) of Regulation S K. All officers are appointed by the Board of Directors to hold office until their successors are appointed. 22 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Important risk factors that could impact our ability to achieve our anticipated operating results and growth plan goals are presented below. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with discussions of our business and the factors affecting our business located elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K and in our other filings with the SEC. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We operate in a highly competitive environment and unanticipated changes relating to competitive factors in our industry, including ongoing industry consolidation, may impact our results of operations. We compete on the basis of a number of different factors, such as product offerings, project execution, customer service, and price. In order to compete effectively we must develop and implement innovative technologies and processes, and execute our clients projects effectively. We can give no assurances that we will continue to be able to compete effectively with the products and services or prices offered by our competitors. Our industry, including our customers and competitors, has experienced unanticipated changes in recent years. Moreover, the industry is undergoing vertical and horizontal consolidation to create economies of scale and control the value chain, which may affect demand for our products and services because of price concessions for our competitors or decreased customer capital spending. This consolidation activity could impact our ability to maintain market share, maintain or increase pricing for our products and services or negotiate favorable contract terms with our customers and suppliers, which could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are unable to predict what effect consolidations and other competitive factors in the industry may have on prices, capital spending by our customers, our selling strategies, our competitive position, our ability to retain customers or our ability to negotiate favorable agreements with our customers. Demand for our products and services depends on oil and gas industry activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in the demand for and price of crude oil and natural gas. We are substantially dependent on conditions in the oil and gas industry, including (i) the level of exploration, development and production activity, (ii) capital spending, and (iii) the processing of oil and natural gas in refining units, petrochemical sites, and natural gas liquefaction plants by energy companies that are our customers. Any substantial or extended decline in these expenditures may result in the reduced pace of discovery and development of new reserves of oil and gas and the reduced exploration of existing wells, which could adversely affect demand for our products and services and, in certain instances, result in the cancellation, modification, or re scheduling of existing orders in our backlog. These factors could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. The level of exploration, development, and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include, but are not limited to, the following demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic growth rates, and general economic and business conditions; costs of exploring for, producing, and delivering oil and natural gas; political and economic uncertainty, and socio political unrest; governmental laws, policies, regulations and subsidies related to or affecting the production, use, and exportation importation of oil and natural gas; available excess production capacity within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) and the level of oil production by non OPEC countries; oil refining and transportation capacity and shifts in end customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas; technological advances affecting energy consumption; development, exploitation, relative price, and availability of alternative sources of energy and our customers shift of capital to the development of these sources; 23 volatility in, and access to, capital and credit markets, which may affect our customers activity levels, and spending for our products and services; and natural disasters. The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. While oil and natural gas prices have partially rebounded from the downturn that began in 2014, the market remains quite volatile and the sustainability of the price recovery and business activity levels is dependent on variables beyond our control, such as geopolitical stability, OPEC actions to regulate its production capacity, changes in demand patterns, and international sanctions and tariffs. Continued volatility or any future reduction in demand for oilfield services could further adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our success depends on our ability to develop, implement, and protect new technologies and services. Our success depends on the ongoing development and implementation of new product designs, including the processes used by us to produce and market our products, and on our ability to protect and maintain critical intellectual property assets related to these developments. If we are not able to obtain patents, trade secrets or other protection of our intellectual property rights, if our patents are unenforceable or the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, or if we are not able to adequately protect our patents or trade secrets, we may not be able to continue to develop our services, products and related technologies. Additionally, our competitors may be able to independently develop technology that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets. If any of these events occurs, we may be unable to meet evolving industry requirements or do so at prices acceptable to our customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The industries in which we operate or have operated expose us to potential liabilities, including the installation or use of our products, which may not be covered by insurance or may be in excess of policy limits, or for which expected recoveries may not be realized. We are subject to potential liabilities arising from, among other possibilities, equipment malfunctions, equipment misuse, personal injuries, and natural disasters, any of which may result in hazardous situations, including uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, fires, and explosions. Our insurance against these risks may not be adequate to cover our liabilities. Further, the insurance may not generally be available in the future or, if available, premiums may not be commercially justifiable. If we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we were not able to obtain liability insurance, such potential liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We may lose m1y on fixed price contracts. As customary for some of our projects, we often agree to provide products and services under fixed price contracts. We are subject to material risks in connection with such fixed price contracts. It is not possible to estimate with complete certainty the final cost or margin of a project at the time of bidding or during the early phases of its execution. Actual expenses incurred in executing these fixed price contracts can vary substantially from those originally anticipated for several reasons including, but not limited to, the following unforeseen additional costs related to the purchase of substantial equipment necessary for contract fulfillment or labor shortages in the markets where the contracts are performed; mechanical failure of our production equipment and machinery; delays caused by local weather conditions and or natural disasters (including earthquakes and floods); and a failure of suppliers, subcontractors, or joint venture partners to perform their contractual obligations. The realization of any material risks and unforeseen circumstances could also lead to delays in the execution schedule of a project. We may be held liable to a customer should we fail to meet project milest1s or deadlines or to comply with other contractual provisions. Additionally, delays in certain projects could lead to delays in subsequent projects that were scheduled to use equipment and machinery still being utilized on a delayed project. 24 Pursuant to the terms of fixed price contracts, we are not always able to increase the price of the contract to reflect factors that were unforeseen at the time our bid was submitted, and this risk may be heightened for projects with longer terms. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance, or variations in multiple contracts, could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. New capital asset construction projects for vessels and manufacturing facilities are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, or results of operations. We regularly carry out capital asset construction projects to maintain, upgrade, and develop our asset base, and such projects are subject to risks of delay and cost overruns that are inherent in any large construction project, resulting from numerous factors including, but not limited to, the following shortages of key equipment, materials or skilled labor; delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; design and engineering issues; and shipyard delays and performance issues. Failure to complete construction in time, or the inability to complete construction in accordance with design specifications, may result in the loss of revenue. Additionally, capital expenditures for construction projects could materially exceed the initially planned investments , or there could be delays in putting such assets into operation. Our failure to timely deliver our backlog could affect future sales, profitability, and relationships with our customers. Many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times due to complex technical and logistical requirements. These contracts may contain clauses related to liquidated damages or financial incentives regarding on time delivery, and a failure by us to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to liquidated damages or loss of financial incentives, reduce our margins on these contracts, or result in damage to existing customer relationships. The ability to meet customer delivery schedules for this backlog is dependent upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, access to the raw materials required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, subcontractor performance, project engineering expertise and execution, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. Failure to deliver backlog in accordance with expectations could negatively impact our financial performance. We face risks relating to our reliance on subcontractors, suppliers, and our joint venture partners. We generally rely on subcontractors, suppliers, and our joint venture partners for the performance of our contracts. Although we are not dependent upon any single supplier, certain geographic areas of our business or a project or group of projects may depend heavily on certain suppliers for raw materials or semi finished goods. Any difficulty in engaging suitable subcontractors or acquiring equipment and materials could compromise our ability to generate a significant margin on a project or to complete such project within the allocated time frame. If subcontractors, suppliers or joint venture partners refuse to adhere to their contractual obligations with us or are unable to do so due to a deterioration of their financial condition, we may be unable to find a suitable replacement at a comparable price, or at all. Moreover, the failure of 1 of our joint venture partners to perform their obligations in a timely and satisfactory manner could lead to additional obligations and costs being imposed on us as we may be obligated to assume our defaulting partner obligations or compensate our customers. Any delay, failure to meet contractual obligations, or other event beyond our control or not foreseeable by us, that is attributable to a subcontractor, supplier or joint venture partner, could lead to delays in the overall progress of the project and or generate significant extra costs. Even if we are entitled to make a claim for these extra costs against the defaulting supplier, subcontractor or joint venture partner, we may be unable to recover the entirety of these costs and this could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our businesses are dependent on the continuing services of certain of our key managers and employees. 25 We depend on key personnel. The loss of any key personnel could adversely impact our business if we are unable to implement key strategies or transactions in their absence. The loss of qualified employees or failure to retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to successfully conduct research activities and develop marketable products and services. Seasonal and weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our services and operations. Our business may be materially affected by variation from normal weather patterns, such as cooler or warmer summers and winters. Adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico or extreme winter conditions in Canada, Russia, and the North Sea, may interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers operations, cause supply disruptions or loss of productivity, and may result in a loss of revenue or damage to our equipment and facilities, which may or may not be insured. Any of these events or outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Due to the types of contracts we enter into and the markets in which we operate, the cumulative loss of several major contracts, customers, or alliances may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We often enter into large, long term contracts that, collectively, represent a significant portion of our revenue. These agreements, if terminated or breached, may have a larger impact on our operating results or our financial condition than shorter term contracts due to the value at risk. Moreover, the global market for the production, transportation, and transformation of hydrocarbons and by products, as well as the other industrial markets in which we operate, is dominated by a small number of companies. As a result, our business relies on a limited number of customers. If we were to lose several key contracts, customers, or alliances over a relatively short period of time, we could experience a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our operations require us to comply with numerous regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our operations and manufacturing activities are governed by international, regional, transnational, and national laws and regulations in every place where we operate relating to matters such as environmental protection, health and safety, labor and employment, import export controls, currency exchange, bribery and corruption, and taxation. These laws and regulations are complex, frequently change, and have tended to become more stringent over time. In the event the scope of these laws and regulations expand in the future, the incremental cost of compliance could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our international operations are subject to anti corruption laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ( FCPA ), the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 (the Bribery Act ), the anti corruption provisions of French law n 2016 1691 dated December 9, 2016 relating to Transparency, Anti corruption and Modernization of the Business Practice ( Sapin II Law ), the Brazilian Anti Bribery Act (also known as the Brazilian Clean Company Act), and economic and trade sanctions, including those administered by the United Nations, the European Union, the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury ( U.S. Treasury ), and the U.S. Department of State. The FCPA prohibits corruptly providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. We may deal with both governments and state owned business enterprises, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. The provisions of the Bribery Act extend beyond bribery of foreign public officials and are more 1rous than the FCPA in a number of other respects, including jurisdiction, non exemption of facilitation payments, and penalties. Economic and trade sanctions restrict our transactions or dealings with certain sancti1d countries, territories, and designated persons. As a result of doing business in foreign countries, including through partners and agents, we are exposed to a risk of violating anti corruption laws and sanctions regulations. Some of the international locations in which we currently operate or may, in the future, operate, have developing legal systems and may have higher levels of corruption than more developed nations. Our continued expansion and worldwide operations, including in developing countries, our development of joint venture relationships worldwide, and the employment of local agents in the countries in which we operate increases the risk of violations of anti corruption laws and economic and trade sanctions. Violations of anti corruption laws and economic and trade sanctions are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts (and termination of existing contracts), and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. In addition, any major violations could have a significant impact on our reputation and consequently on our ability to win future business. 26 We have implemented internal controls designed to minimize and detect potential violations of laws and regulations in a timely manner but we can provide no assurance that such policies and procedures will be followed at all times or will effectively detect and prevent violations of the applicable laws by 1 or more of our employees, consultants, agents, or partners. The occurrence of any such violation could subject us to penalties and material adverse consequences on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Compliance with environmental and climate change related laws and regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations in various countries affect the equipment, systems, and services we design, market, and sell, as well as the facilities where we manufacture our equipment and systems, and any other operations we undertake. We are required to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with environmental laws and regulations, and believe that we will continue to be required to do so in the future. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the issuance of orders enjoining our operations, or other claims and complaints. Additionally, our insurance and compliance costs may increase as a result of changes in environmental laws and regulations or changes in enforcement. These laws and regulations, as well as any new laws and regulations affecting exploration and development of drilling for crude oil and natural gas, are becoming increasingly strict and could adversely affect our business and operating results by increasing our costs, limiting the demand for our products and services, or restricting our operations. Existing or future laws and regulations relating to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change may adversely affect our business. Climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention. As a result, numerous laws, regulations, and proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional, and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases ( GHGs ). These efforts have included cap and trade programs, carbon taxes, GHG reporting and tracking programs and regulations that directly limit GHG emissions from certain sources. Such existing or future laws, regulations , and proposals concerning the release of GHGs or that concern climate change (including laws, regulations , and proposals that seek to mitigate the effects of climate change) may adversely impact demand for the equipment, systems and services we design, market and sell. For example, oil and natural gas exploration and production may decline as a result of such laws, regulations , and proposals , and as a consequence , demand for our equipment, systems and services may also decline. In addition, such laws, regulations , and proposals may also result in more 1rous obligations with respect to our operations, including the facilities where we manufacture our equipment and systems. Such decline in demand for our equipment, systems and services and such 1rous obligations in respect of our operations may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Disruptions in the political, regulatory, economic, and social conditions of the countries in which we conduct business could adversely affect our business or results of operations. We operate in various countries across the world. Instability and unforeseen changes in any of the markets in which we conduct business, including economically and politically volatile areas could have an adverse effect on the demand for our services and products, our financial condition, or our results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following nationalization and expropriation; potentially burdensome taxation; inflationary and recessionary markets, including capital and equity markets; civil unrest, labor issues, political instability, disease outbreaks, terrorist attacks, cyber terrorism, military activity, and wars; supply disruptions in key oil producing countries; the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing; trade restrictions, trade protection measures, price controls, or trade disputes; 27 sanctions, such as prohibitions or restrictions by the United States against countries that are the targets of economic sanctions, or are designated as state sponsors of terrorism; foreign ownership restrictions; import or export licensing requirements; restrictions on operations, trade practices, trade partners, and investment decisions resulting from domestic and foreign laws, and regulations; regime changes; changes in, and the administration of, treaties, laws, and regulations including in response to public health issues; inability to repatriate income or capital; reductions in the availability of qualified personnel; foreign currency fluctuations or currency restrictions; and fluctuations in the interest rate comp1nt of forward foreign currency rates. DTC and Euroclear may cease to act as depository and clearing agencies for our shares. Our shares were issued into the facilities of The Depository Trust Company ( DTC ) with respect to shares listed on the NYSE and Euroclear with respect to shares listed on Eur1xt Paris (DTC and Euroclear being referred to as the Clearance Services ). The Clearance Services are widely used mechanisms that allow for rapid electronic transfers of securities between the participants in their respective systems, which include many large banks and brokerage firms. The Clearance Services have general discretion to cease to act as a depository and clearing agencies for our shares. If either of the Clearance Services determine at any time that our shares are not eligible for continued deposit and clearance within its facilities, then we believe that our shares would not be eligible for continued listing on the NYSE or Eur1xt Paris, as applicable, and trading in our shares would be disrupted. Any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our shares. The United Kingdom withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets, and our business. We are based in the United Kingdom and have operational headquarters in Paris, France; Houston, Texas, United States; and in London, United Kingdom, with worldwide operations, including material business operations in Europe. The United Kingdom formally withdrew from the European Union on January 31, 2020 and entered into a transition period, which will end on or after December 31, 2020. During the transition period, the United Kingdom and the European Union will continue to negotiate their future customs and trading arrangements, and other aspects of their relationship. Political and economic uncertainty remains about whether the terms of the relationship will differ materially from the terms before withdrawal, as well as the possibility that a so called no deal separation will occur if negotiations are not completed by the end of the transition period. These developments could have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of the global financial markets and could significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Asset valuations, currency exchange rates, and credit ratings may be especially subject to increased market volatility. In addition, a lack of clarity about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union, and their respective laws and regulations, including financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, intellectual property rights, supply chain logistics, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, immigration laws, employment laws, and other rules that would apply to us and our subsidiaries, could increase our costs, restrict our access to capital within the United Kingdom and the European Union, depress economic activity, and further decrease foreign direct investment in the United Kingdom. For example, withdrawal from the European Union could, depending on the negotiated terms of such withdrawal, eliminate the benefit of certain tax related E.U. directives currently applicable to U.K. companies such as us, including the Parent Subsidiary Directive and the Interest and Royalties Directive, which could, subject to any relief under an available tax treaty, raise our tax costs. 28 Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. As an English public limited company, we must meet certain additional financial requirements before we may declare dividends or repurchase shares and certain capital structure decisions may require stockholder approval which may limit our flexibility to manage our capital structure. We may not be able to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our ordinary shares in accordance with our announced intent, or at all. Under English law, we will only be able to declare dividends, make distributions, or repurchase shares (other than out of the proceeds of a new issuance of shares for that purpose) out of distributable profits. Distributable profits are a company accumulated, realized profits, to the extent that they have not been previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less its accumulated, realized losses, to the extent that they have not been previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made. In addition, as a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales, we may only make a distribution if the amount of our net assets is not less than the aggregate of our called up share capital and non distributable reserves and to the extent that the distribution does not reduce the amount of those assets to less than that aggregate. Following the Merger, we implemented a court approved reduction of our capital, which was completed on June 29, 2017, in order to create distributable profits to support the payment of possible future dividends or future share repurchases. Our articles of association permit us by ordinary resolution of the stockholders to declare dividends, provided that the directors have made a recommendation as to its amount. The dividend shall not exceed the amount recommended by the Board of Directors. The directors may also decide to pay interim dividends if it appears to them that the profits available for distribution justify the payment. When recommending or declaring payment of a dividend, the directors are required under English law to comply with their duties, including considering our future financial requirements. In addition, the Board of Directors determinations regarding dividends and share repurchases will depend on a variety of other factors, including our net income, cash flow generated from operations or other sources, liquidity position, and potential alternative uses of cash, such as acquisitions, as well as economic conditions and expected future financial results. Our ability to declare and pay future dividends and make future share repurchases will depend on our future financial performance, which in turn depends on the successful implementation of our strategy and on financial, competitive, regulatory, technical, general economic conditions, demand and selling prices for our products and services, and other factors specific to our industry or specific projects, many of which are beyond our control. Therefore, our ability to generate cash depends on the performance of our operations and could be limited by decreases in our profitability or increases in costs, regulatory changes, capital expenditures, or debt servicing requirements. Any failure to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our ordinary shares could negatively impact our reputation, harm investor confidence in us, and cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Our existing and future debt may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding debt. We have substantial existing debt. As of December 31, 2019 , our total debt is $4.5 billion . We also have the capacity under our $25 billion credit facility, in addition to our bilateral facility, to incur substantial additional debt. Our level of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could make it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, distributions, and other general partnership purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing to react to changes in our business; or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. Additionally, any failure to meet required payments on our debt or to comply with any covenants in the instruments governing our debt, could result in an event of default under the terms of those instruments. In the event of such 29 default, the holders of such debt could elect to declare all the amounts outstanding under such instruments to be due and payable. The London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) and certain other interest benchmarks may be subject to regulatory guidance and or reform that could cause interest rates under our current or future debt agreements to perform differently than in the past or cause other unanticipated consequences. The United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, has announced that it intends to stop encouraging or requiring banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021, and it is unclear if LIBOR will cease to exist or if new methods of calculating LIBOR will evolve. If LIBOR ceases to exist or if the methods of calculating LIBOR change from their current form, interest rates on our current or future debt obligations may be adversely affected. A downgrade in our debt rating could restrict our ability to access the capital markets. The terms of our financing are, in part, dependent on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies. We cannot provide assurance that any of our current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, capital structure, planned asset purchases or sales, near and long term production growth opportunities, market position, liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix, customer and geographic diversification, and commodity price levels. A downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly to non investment grade levels, could limit our ability to access the debt capital markets or refinance our existing debt or cause us to refinance or issue debt with less favorable terms and conditions. Moreover, our revolving credit agreement includes an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. An increase in the level of our indebtedness and related interest costs may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing, as well as have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Uninsured claims and litigation against us, including intellectual property litigation, could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We could be impacted by the outcome of pending litigation, as well as unexpected litigation or proceedings. We have insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims related to our products or operating environments in which our employees operate, to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available. However, our insurance policies are subject to exclusions, limitations, and other conditions and may not apply in all cases, for example where willful wrongdoing on our s alleged. Additionally, the nature and amount of that insurance may not be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities arising out of pending and future claims and litigation. Additionally, in individual circumstances, certain proceedings or cases may also lead to our formal or informal exclusion from tenders or the revocation or loss of business licenses or permits. Our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected claims not covered by insurance. In addition, the tools, techniques, methodologies, programs, and comp1nts we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs. The resolution of these claims could require us to enter into license agreements or develop alternative technologies. The development of these technologies or the payment of royalties under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. If a license were not available, or we are not able to develop alternative technologies, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We conduct operations around the world in many different currencies. Because a significant portion of our revenue is denominated in currencies other than our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, changes in exchange rates will produce fluctuations in our revenue, costs, and earnings, and may also affect the book value of our assets and liabilities and related equity. We hedge transaction impacts on margins and earnings where a transaction is not in the functional currency of the business unit, but we do not hedge translation impacts on earnings. Our efforts to minimize our currency exposure through such hedging transactions may not be successful depending on market and business conditions. Moreover, certain currencies in which we conduct operations, specifically currencies in countries such as Angola and Nigeria, do not actively trade in the global foreign exchange markets and may subject 30 us to increased foreign currency exposures. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our acquisition and divestiture activities involve substantial risks. We have made and expect to continue to pursue acquisitions, dispositions, or other investments that may strategically fit our business and or growth objectives. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to locate suitable acquisitions, dispositions, or investments, or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Even if we do successfully execute such transactions, they may not result in anticipated benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If we are unable to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, we could fail to achieve anticipated synergies and cost savings, including any expected increases in revenues and operating results. We may not be able to successfully cause a buyer of a divested business to assume the liabilities of that business or, even if such liabilities are assumed, we may have difficulties enforcing our rights, contractual or otherwise, against the buyer. We may invest in companies or businesses that fail, causing a loss of all or part of our investment. In addition, if we determine that an other than temporary decline in the fair value exists for a company in which we have invested, we may have to write down that investment to its fair value and recognize the related write down as an investment loss. A failure of our IT infrastructure, including as a result of cyber attacks, could adversely impact our business and results of operations. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our IT systems. Accordingly, we rely upon the capacity, reliability, and security of our IT hardware and software infrastructure and our ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to changing needs. We have been subject to cyber attacks in the past, including phishing, malware, and ransomware. No such attack has had a material adverse effect on our business, however this may not be the case with future attacks. Our systems may be vulnerable to damages from such attacks, as well as from natural disasters, failures in hardware or software, power fluctuations, unauthorized access to data and systems, loss or destruction of data (including confidential customer information), human error, and other similar disruptions, and we cannot give assurance that any security measures we have implemented or may in the future implement will be sufficient to identify and prevent or mitigate such disruptions. We rely on third parties to support the operation of our IT hardware, software infrastructure, and cloud services, and in certain instances, utilize web based and software as a service applications. The security and privacy measures implemented by such third parties, as well as the measures implemented by any entities we acquire or with whom we do business, may not be sufficient to identify or prevent cyber attacks, and any such attacks may have a material adverse effect on our business. While our IT vendor agreements typically contain provisions that seek to eliminate or limit our exposure to liability for damages from a cyber attack, we cannot ensure such provisions will withstand legal challenges or cover all or any such damages. Threats to our IT systems arise from numerous sources, not all of which are within our control, including fraud or malice on the part of third parties, accidental technological failure, electrical or telecommunication outages, failures of computer servers or other damage to our property or assets, outbreaks of hostilities, or terrorist acts. The failure of our IT systems or those of our vendors to perform as anticipated for any reason or any significant breach of security could disrupt our business and result in numerous adverse consequences, including reduced effectiveness and efficiency of operations, inappropriate disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, reputational harm, increased overhead costs, and loss of important information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. Our insurance coverage may not cover all of the costs and liabilities we incur as the result of any disruptions or security breaches, and if our business continuity and or disaster recovery plans do not effectively and timely resolve issues resulting from a cyber attack, we may suffer material adverse effects on our business. We are subject to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy, data protection, and data security. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. We are subject to international data protection laws, such as the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, in the European Economic Area, or EEA. The GDPR imposes several stringent requirements for controllers and processors of personal data which have increased our obligations, including, for example, by requiring more robust disclosures to individuals, notifications, in some cases, of data breaches to regulators and data subjects, and a record of processing and other policies and procedures to be maintained to adhere to the accountability principle. In addition, we are subject to the GDPR rules on transferring personal data outside of the EEA (including to the 31 United States), and some of these rules are currently being challenged in the courts. Failure to comply with the requirements of GDPR and the local laws implementing or supplementing the GDPR could result in fines of up to 20,000,000 or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher, as well as other administrative penalties. We are likely to be required to expend significant capital and other resources to ensure ongoing compliance with the GDPR and other applicable data protection legislation, and we may be required to put in place additional control mechanisms which could be 1rous and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The IRS may not agree that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes and may seek to impose an excise tax on gains recognized by certain individuals. Although we are incorporated in the United Kingdom, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the IRS ) may assert that we should be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code ). For U.S. federal income tax purposes, a corporation (i) is generally considered a domestic corporation (or U.S. tax resident) if it is organized in the United States or of any state or political subdivision therein, and (ii) is generally considered a foreign corporation (or non U.S. tax resident) if it is not considered a domestic corporation. Because we are a U.K. incorporated entity, we would be considered a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non U.S. tax resident) under these rules. Section 7874 of the Code ( Section 7874 ) provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We do not believe this exception applies. However, the Section 7874 rules are complex and subject to detailed regulations, the application of which is uncertain in various respects. It is possible that the IRS will not agree with our position. Should the IRS successfully challenge our position, it is also possible that an excise tax under Section 4985 of the Code (the Section 4985 Excise Tax ) may be assessed against certain disqualified individuals (including former officers and directors of FMC Technologies, Inc.) on certain stock based compensation held thereby. We may, if we determine that it is appropriate, provide disqualified individuals with a payment with respect to the Section 4985 Excise Tax, so that, on a net after tax basis, they would be in the same position as if no such Section 4985 Excise Tax had been applied. In addition, there can be no assurance that there will not be a change in law or interpretation, including with retroactive effect, that might cause us to be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. U.S. tax laws and or guidance could affect our ability to engage in certain acquisition strategies and certain internal restructurings. Even if we are treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Section 7874, U.S. Treasury regulations, and other guidance promulgated thereunder may adversely affect our ability to engage in certain future acquisitions of U.S. businesses or to restructure the non U.S. members of our group. These limitations, if applicable, may affect the tax efficiencies that otherwise might be achieved in such potential future transactions or restructurings. In addition, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury have issued final and temporary regulations providing that, even if we are treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, certain intercompany debt instruments issued on or after April 4, 2016 will be treated as equity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, therefore limiting U.S. tax benefits and resulting in possible U.S. withholding taxes. Although recent guidance from the U.S. Treasury removes certain documentation requirements that would otherwise be imposed with respect to covered debt instruments, announces an intention to further modify and possibly withdraw certain classification rules relating to covered debt instruments, and further indicates that these rules generally are the subject of continuing study and may be further materially modified, the current regulations may adversely affect our future effective tax rate and could also impact our ability to engage in future restructurings if such transactions cause an existing intercompany debt instrument to be treated as reissued for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are subject to the tax laws of numerous jurisdictions; challenges to the interpretation of, or future changes to, such laws could adversely affect us. We and our subsidiaries are subject to tax laws and regulations in the United Kingdom, the United States, France, and numerous other jurisdictions in which we and our subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations are inherently complex, and we are, and will continue to be, obligated to make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws and regulations to our operations and businesses. The interpretation and application of 32 these laws and regulations could be challenged by the relevant governmental authorities, which could result in administrative or judicial procedures, actions, or sanctions, which could be material. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law in the United States, which made extensive changes to the U.S. taxation of multinational companies, and is subject to future regulatory and possible legislative changes. In addition, the U.S. Congress, the U.K. Government, the European Union, the Organization for Economic Co operation and Development (the OECD ), and other government agencies in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. New tax initiatives, directives, and rules, such as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting initiative, and the European Union Anti Tax Avoidance Directives, may increase our tax burden and require additional compliance related expenditures. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows may be adversely affected. Further changes, including with retroactive effect, in the tax laws of the United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union, or other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could also adversely affect us. We may not qualify for benefits under tax treaties entered into between the United Kingdom and other countries. We operate in a manner such that we believe we are eligible for benefits under tax treaties between the United Kingdom and other countries. However, our ability to qualify for such benefits will depend on whether we are treated as a U.K. tax resident, the requirements contained in each treaty and applicable domestic laws, on the facts and circumstances surrounding our operations and management, and on the relevant interpretation of the tax authorities and courts. For example, because of Brexit, we may lose some or all of the benefits of tax treaties between the United States and the remaining members of the European Union, and face higher tax liabilities, which may be significant. Another example is the Multilateral Convention to Implement Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (the MLI ), which entered into force for participating jurisdictions on July 1, 2018. The MLI recommends that countries adopt a limitation on benefit rule and or a principle purposes test rule with regards to their tax treaties. The scope and interpretation of these rules as adopted pursuant to the MLI are presently under development, but the application of either rule might deny us tax treaty benefits that were previously available. The failure by us or our subsidiaries to qualify for benefits under tax treaties entered into between the United Kingdom and other countries could result in adverse tax consequences to us (including an increased tax burden and increased filing obligations) and could result in certain tax consequences of owning and disposing of our shares. We intend to be treated exclusively as a resident of the United Kingdom for tax purposes, but French or other tax authorities may seek to treat us as a tax resident of another jurisdiction. We are incorporated in the United Kingdom. English law currently provides that we will be regarded as a U.K. resident for tax purposes from incorporation and shall remain so unless (i) we are concurrently a resident in another jurisdiction (applying the tax residence rules of that jurisdiction) that has a double tax treaty with the United Kingdom and (ii) there is a tiebreaker provision in that tax treaty which allocates exclusive residence to that other jurisdiction. In this regard, we have a permanent establishment in France to satisfy certain French tax requirements imposed by the French Tax Code with respect to the Merger. Although it is intended that we will be treated as having our exclusive place of tax residence in the United Kingdom, the French tax authorities may claim that we are a tax resident of France if we were to fail to maintain our place of effective management in the United Kingdom. Any such claim would be settled between the French and U.K. tax authorities pursuant to the mutual assistance procedure provided for by the tax treaty concluded between France and the United Kingdom. There is no assurance that these authorities would reach an agreement that we will remain exclusively a U.K. tax resident; an adverse determination could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. A failure to maintain exclusive tax residency in the United Kingdom could result in adverse tax consequences to us and our subsidiaries and could result in certain adverse changes in the tax consequences of owning and disposing of our shares. Pirates endanger our maritime employees and assets. We face material piracy risks in the Gulf of Guinea, the Somali Basin, and the Gulf of Aden, and, to a lesser extent, in Southeast Asia, Malacca, and the Singapore Straits. Piracy represents a risk for both our projects and our vessels, which operate and transport through sensitive maritime areas. Such risks have the potential to significantly 33 harm our crews and to negatively impact the execution schedule for our projects. If our maritime employees or assets are endangered, additional time may be required to find an alternative solution, which may delay project realization and negatively impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Risks Related to the Proposed Separation Transaction The proposed separation transaction announced on August 26, 2019 is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, may require significant time and attention of our management, and may not achieve the intended results. As previously disclosed, our Board of Directors unanimously approved a plan to separate into 2 independent, publicly traded companies. For more information, please refer to Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The completion of the transaction, which is expected to be structured as a separation of our Onshore Offshore segment including Genesis, a leader in front end engineering and design, as well as Loading Systems, a leader in cryogenic material transfer products, and Cybernetix, a technology leader in process automation, is contingent upon the final approval of our Board of Directors as well as market conditions and the receipt of regulatory approvals, which are beyond our control, as well as consultation of employee representatives, where applicable. We may also choose to abandon the separation at any time. For these and other reasons, the separation may not be completed in the expected timeframe or at all. Additionally, the execution of the proposed separation will likely continue to require significant time and attention of our management, which could impact other strategic initiatives. Our employees may also be uncertain about their future roles within the separate companies pending the completion of the separation, which could lead to departures. Also, in connection with the separation, we will indemnify Technip Energies for certain liabilities and Technip Energies will indemnify us for certain liabilities. If we are required to act on these indemnities to Technip Energies, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Additionally, any indemnity from Technip Energies may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of liabilities for which we are responsible and Technip Energies may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. Any such difficulties could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, and cause the combined market value of us and Technip Energies after the separation to fall short of the market value of our shares prior to the separation. Substantial sales of our shares may also occur in connection with the separation, which could cause our share price to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS N1 34 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES 
