CIK: 319654
Company Name: PERMIAN BASIN ROYALTY TRUST
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2020-03-16
Accession Number: 0001193125-20-074441


Item 1 Business The Permian Basin Royalty Trust (the Trust ) is an express trust created under the laws of the state of Texas by the Permian Basin Royalty Trust Indenture (the Trust Indenture ) entered into on November 3, 1980, between Southland Royalty Company ( Southland Royalty ) and The First National Bank of Fort Worth, as Trustee. Simmons Bank, an Arkansas state chartered bank ( Simmons Bank ), is now the Trustee of the Trust. The principal office of the Trust (sometimes referred to herein as the Registrant ) is located at 2911 Turtle Creek Boulevard, Suite 850, Dallas, Texas (teleph1 number (855) 588 7839). On January 9, 2014, Bank of America N.A. (as successor to The First National Bank of Fort Worth) gave notice to Unit holders that it would be resigning as trustee of the Trust subject to certain conditions that included the appointment of Southwest Bank as successor trustee. At a Special Meeting of Trust Unit holders, the Unit holders approved the appointment of Southwest Bank as successor trustee of the Trust once the resignation of Bank of America N.A. took effect and also approved certain amendments to the Trust Indenture. The effective date of Bank of America N.A. resignation and the effective date of Southwest Bank appointment as successor trustee was August 29, 2014. Effective October 19, 2017, Simmons First National Corporation ( SFNC ) completed its acquisition of First Texas BHC, Inc., the parent company of Southwest Bank. SFNC is the parent company of Simmons Bank. SFNC merged Southwest Bank with Simmons Bank effective February 20, 2018. The defined term Trustee as used herein shall refer to Bank of America N.A. for periods prior to August 29, 2014, and shall refer to Southwest Bank for periods from August 29, 2014 through February 19, 2018 and shall refer to Simmons Bank for periods on and after February 20, 2018. On October 23, 1980, the stockholders of Southland Royalty approved and authorized that company conveyance of net overriding royalty interests (equivalent to net profits interests) to the Trust for the benefit of the stockholders of Southland Royalty of record at the close of business on the date of the conveyance consisting of a 75% net overriding royalty interest carved out of that company fee mineral interests in the Waddell Ranch properties in Crane County, Texas and a 95% net overriding royalty interest carved out of that company major producing royalty properties in Texas. The conveyance of these interests (the Royalties ) was made on November 3, 1980, effective as to production from and after November 1, 1980 at 700 a.m. The properties and interests from which the Royalties were carved and which the Royalties now burden are collectively referred to herein as the Underlying Properties. The Underlying Properties are more particularly described under Item 2 Properties herein. The function of the Trustee is to collect the income attributable to the Royalties, to pay all expenses and charges of the Trust, and then to distribute the remaining available income to the Unit holders. The Trust is not empowered to carry on any business activity and has no employees, all administrative functions being performed by the Trustee. The Royalties constitute the principal asset of the Trust and the beneficial interests in the Royalties are divided into that number of Units of Beneficial Interest (the Units ) of the Trust equal to the number of shares of the common stock of Southland Royalty outstanding as of the close of business on November 3, 1980. Each stockholder of Southland Royalty of record at the close of business on November 3, 1980, received 1 Unit for each share of the common stock of Southland Royalty then held. In 1985, Southland Royalty became a wholly owned subsidiary of Burlington Northern Inc. ( BNI ). In 1988, BNI transferred its natural resource operations to Burlington Resources Inc. ( BRI ) as a result of which Southland Royalty became a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of BRI. As a result of this transfer, Meridian Oil Inc., a Delaware corporation ( MOI ), which was the parent company of Southland Royalty, became a wholly owned direct subsidiary of BRI. Effective January 1, 1996, Southland Royalty was merged with and into MOI. As a result of this merger, the separate corporate existence of Southland Royalty ceased and MOI survived and succeeded to the ownership of all of the assets of Southland Royalty and assumed all of its rights, powers, privileges, liabilities and obligations. Effective July 11, 1996, 1 Table of Contents MOI changed its name to Burlington Resources Oil & Gas Company, now Burlington Oil & Gas Company LP ( BROG ). Any reference to BROG hereafter for periods prior to the occurrence of the aforementi1d name change or merger should, as applicable, be construed to be a reference to MOI or Southland Royalty. Further, BROG notified the Trust that, on February 14, 1997, the Texas Royalty properties (as defined herein on page 8) that are subject to the Net Overriding Royalty Conveyance dated November 1, 1980 (the Texas Royalty Conveyance ), were sold to Riverhill Energy Corporation ( Riverhill Energy ) of Midland, Texas. Effective March 31, 2006, ConocoPhillips acquired BRI pursuant to a merger between BRI and a wholly owned subsidiary of ConocoPhillips. As a result of this acquisition, BRI and BROG are both wholly owned subsidiaries of ConocoPhillips. BROG notified the Trust, that on November 1, 2019, the Waddell Ranch properties (as defined herein on page 8) that are subject to the Net Overriding Royalty Conveyance (Permian Basin Royalty Trust Waddell Ranch) dated November 1, 1980 (the Waddell Ranch Conveyance ), were sold to Blackbeard Operating, LLC ( Blackbeard ) of Fort Worth, Texas. Blackbeard will become the operator effective as of April 1, 2020. The term net proceeds is used in the above described conveyance and means the excess of gross proceeds received by the owner of the Underlying Properties during a particular period over production costs for such period. Gross proceeds means the amount received by the owner of the Underlying Properties from the sale of the production attributable to the Underlying Properties, subject to certain adjustments. Production costs means, generally, costs incurred on an accrual basis in operating the Underlying Properties, including both capital and non capital costs; for example, development drilling, production and processing costs, applicable taxes, and operating charges. If production costs exceed gross proceeds in any month, the excess is recovered out of future gross proceeds prior to the making of further payment to the Trust, but the Trust is not liable for any production costs or liabilities attributable to these properties and interests or the minerals produced therefrom. If at any time the Trust receives more than the amount due from the Royalties, it shall not be obligated to return such overpayment, but the amounts payable to it for any subsequent period shall be reduced by such overpaid amount, plus interest, at a rate specified in the conveyance. To the extent it has the legal right to do so, the owner of the Underlying Properties is responsible for marketing the production from such properties and interests, either under existing sales contracts or under future arrangements at the best prices and on the best terms it shall deem reasonably obtainable in the circumstances. The owner of the Underlying Properties also has the obligation to maintain books and records sufficient to determine the amounts payable to the Trustee. The owner of the Underlying Properties, however, can sell its interests in the Underlying Properties. Proceeds from production in the first month are generally received by BROG in the second month, the net proceeds attributable to the Royalties are paid by BROG to the Trustee in the third month and distribution by the Trustee to the Unit holders is made in the fourth month. The identity of Unit holders entitled to a distribution will generally be determined as of the last business day of each calendar month (the monthly record date ). The amount of each monthly distribution will generally be determined and announced ten days before the monthly record date. Unit holders of record as of the monthly record date will be entitled to receive the calculated monthly distribution amount for each month on or before ten business days after the monthly record date. The aggregate monthly distribution amount is the excess of (i) net revenues from the Trust properties, plus any decrease in cash reserves previously established for contingent liabilities and any other cash receipts of the Trust over (ii) the expenses and payments of liabilities of the Trust plus any net increase in cash reserves for contingent liabilities. Cash held by the Trustee as a reserve for liabilities or contingencies (which reserves may be established by the Trustee in its discretion) or pending distribution is placed, at the Trustee discretion, in obligations issued by (or unconditionally guaranteed by) the United States or any agency thereof, repurchase agreements secured by obligations issued by the United States or any agency thereof, certificates of deposit of banks having a capital surplus and undivided profits in excess of $50,000,000, or other interest bearing accounts in FDIC insured state or national banks, including the Trustee, so long as the entire amount in such account is at all times fully insured by the FDIC, subject, in each case, to certain other qualifying conditions. The income to the Trust attributable to the Royalties is not subject in material respects to seasonal factors nor in any manner related to or dependent upon patents, licenses, franchises or concessions. The Trust conducts no research activities. The Trust has no employees since all administrative functions are performed by the Trustee. BROG, as the current operator, has advised the Trustee that it believes that comparable revenues could be obtained in the event of a change in purchasers of production. 2 Table of Contents Website SEC Filings Our Internet address is www.pbt permian.com . You can review, free of charge, the filings the Trust has made with respect to its annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We shall post these reports to our Internet address as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. Widely Held Fixed Investment Trust Reporting Information Some Trust Units are held by middlemen, as such term is broadly defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations (and includes custodians, nominees, certain joint owners, and brokers holding an interest for a customer in street name, collectively referred to herein as middlemen ). Therefore, the Trustee considers the Trust to be a non mortgage widely held fixed investment trust ( WHFIT ) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Simmons Bank, EIN 71 0162300, 2911 Turtle Creek Boulevard, Suite 850, Dallas, Texas 75219, teleph1 number (855) 588 7839, email address trustee@pbt permian.com, is the representative of the Trust that will provide tax information in accordance with applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations governing the information reporting requirements of the Trust as a WHFIT. Tax information is also posted by the Trustee at www.pbt permian.com . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the middlemen holding Trust Units on behalf of Unit holders, and not the Trustee of the Trust, are solely responsible for complying with the information reporting requirements under the U.S. Treasury Regulations with respect to such Trust Units, including the issuance of IRS Forms 1099 and certain written tax statements. Unit holders whose Trust Units are held by middlemen should consult with such middlemen regarding the information that will be reported to them by the middlemen with respect to the Trust Units. Item 1A. Risk Factors Crude oil and natural gas prices are volatile and fluctuate in response to a number of factors; Lower prices could reduce the net proceeds payable to the Trust and Trust distributions. The Trust monthly distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of crude oil and natural gas and a material decrease in such prices could reduce the amount of cash distributions paid to Unit holders. Crude oil and natural gas prices can fluctuate widely on a month to month basis in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust. Factors that contribute to price fluctuation include, among others political conditions in major oil producing regions, especially in the Middle East; worldwide economic conditions; weather conditions; trade barriers; public health concerns; the supply and price of domestic and foreign crude oil or natural gas; the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree upon and maintain oil prices and production levels; the level of consumer demand; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; and the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation. 3 Table of Contents When crude oil and natural gas prices decline, the Trust is affected in 2 ways. First, distributable income from the Royalties is reduced. Second, exploration and development activity on the Underlying Properties may decline as some projects may become uneconomic and are either delayed or eliminated. It is impossible to predict future crude oil and natural gas price movements, and this reduces the predictability of future cash distributions to Unit holders. Increased production and development costs attributable to the Royalties will result in decreased Trust distributions unless revenues also increase. Production and development costs attributable to the Royalties are deducted in the calculation of the Trust share of net proceeds. Accordingly, higher or lower production and development costs will directly decrease or increase the amount received by the Trust from the Royalties. Production and development costs are impacted by increases in commodity prices, both directly, through commodity price dependent costs, such as electricity, and indirectly, as a result of demand driven increases in costs of oilfield goods and services. For example, the costs of electricity that will be included in production and development costs deducted in calculating the Trust share of 2020 net proceeds could increase compared to the electrical costs incurred during 2019 if higher fuel surcharges are charged by the third party electricity provider in response to any increased costs of natural gas consumed to generate the electricity. These increased costs could reduce the Trust share of 2020 net proceeds below the level that would exist if such costs remained at the level experienced in 2019. Similarly, new or changes to existing laws or regulations with which the Underlying Properties must comply, including environmental regulations or regulation of injection and disposal wells in connection with concerns regarding seismic activity, could result in increased production or development costs. If production and development costs attributable to the Royalties exceed the gross proceeds related to production from the Underlying Properties, the Trust will not receive net proceeds until future proceeds from production exceed the total of the excess costs plus accrued interest during the deficit period. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional proceeds to repay the costs. Trust reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, which could cause both estimated reserves and estimated future net revenues to be too high, leading to write downs of estimated reserves. The value of the Units will depend upon, among other things, the reserves attributable to the Royalties from the Underlying Properties. The calculations of proved reserves and estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. In addition, the estimates of future net revenues are based upon various assumptions regarding future production levels, prices and costs that may prove to be incorrect over time. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data, engineering interpretation and judgment and the assumptions used regarding the quantities of recoverable crude oil and natural gas and the future prices of crude oil and natural gas. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make many assumptions in estimating reserves. Those factors and assumptions include historical production from the area compared with production rates from similar producing areas; the effects of governmental regulation; assumptions about future commodity prices, production and development costs, taxes, and capital expenditures; the availability of enhanced recovery techniques; and relationships with landowners, working interest partners, pipeline companies and others. Changes in any of these factors and assumptions can materially change reserve and future net revenue estimates. The Trust estimate of reserves and future net revenues is further complicated because the Trust holds an interest in net overriding royalties and does not own a specific percentage of the crude oil or natural gas reserves. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the Underlying Properties, and therefore actual net proceeds payable to the Trust, will vary from estimates and those variations could be material. Results of drilling, testing and production after the date of those estimates may require substantial downward revisions or write downs of reserves. 4 Table of Contents The assets of the Trust are depleting assets and, if the operators developing the Underlying Properties do not perform additional development projects, the assets may deplete faster than expected. Eventually, the assets of the Trust will cease to produce in commercial quantities and the Trust will cease to receive proceeds from such assets. In addition, a reduction in depletion tax benefits may reduce the market value of the Units. The net proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets. The reduction in proved reserve quantities is a common measure of depletion. Future maintenance and development projects on the Underlying Properties will affect the quantity of proved reserves and can offset the reduction in proved reserves. The timing and size of these projects will depend on the market prices of crude oil and natural gas. If the operators developing the Underlying Properties do not implement additional maintenance and development projects, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by the Trust. Because the net proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets, the portion of distributions to Unit holders attributable to depletion may be considered a return of capital as opposed to a return on investment. Distributions that are a return of capital will ultimately diminish the depletion tax benefits available to the Unit holders, which could reduce the market value of the Units over time. Eventually, the Royalties will cease to produce in commercial quantities and the Trust will, therefore, cease to receive any distributions of net proceeds therefrom. Future royalty income may be subject to risks relating to the credi2rthiness of third parties. The Trust does not lend m1y and has limited ability to borrow m1y, which the Trustee believes limits the Trust risk from credit markets. The Trust future royalty income, however, may be subject to risks relating to the credi2rthiness of the operators of the Underlying Properties and other purchasers of the crude oil and natural gas produced from the Underlying Properties, as well as risks associated with fluctuations in the price of crude oil and natural gas. The market price for the Units may not reflect the value of the royalty interests held by the Trust. The public trading price for the Units tends to be tied to the recent and expected levels of cash distribution on the Units. The amounts available for distribution by the Trust vary in response to numerous factors outside the control of the Trust, including prevailing prices for crude oil and natural gas produced from the Royalties. The market price is not necessarily indicative of the value that the Trust would realize if it sold those Royalties to a third party buyer. In addition, such market price is not necessarily reflective of the fact that since the assets of the Trust are depleting assets, a portion of each cash distribution paid on the Units should be considered by investors as a return of capital, with the remainder being considered as a return on investment. There is no guarantee that distributions made to a Unit holder over the life of these depleting assets will equal or exceed the purchase price paid by the Unit holder. Operational risks and hazards associated with the development of the Underlying Properties may decrease Trust distributions. There are operational risks and hazards associated with the production and transportation of crude oil and natural gas, including without limitation natural disasters, blowouts, explosions, fires, leakage of crude oil or natural gas, releases of other hazardous materials, mechanical failures, cratering, and pollution. Any of these or similar occurrences could result in the interruption or cessation of operations, personal injury or loss of life, property damage, damage to productive formations or equipment, or damage to the environment or natural resources, or cleanup obligations. The operation of oil and gas properties is also subject to various laws and regulations. Non compliance with such laws and regulations could subject the operator to additional costs, sanctions or liabilities. The uninsured costs resulting from any of these or similar occurrences could be deducted as a cost of production in calculating the net proceeds payable to the Trust and would therefore reduce Trust distributions by the amount of such uninsured costs. As of December 31, 2019, oil and gas production from the Waddell Ranch properties is processed through a single facility, future distributions from those properties may be particularly susceptible to such risks. A partial or complete shut down of operations at that facility could disrupt the flow of royalty payments to the Trust and, accordingly, the 5 Table of Contents Trust distributions to its Unit holders. In addition, although BROG is the current operator of record of the properties burdened by the Waddell Ranch overriding royalty interests, n1 of the Trustee, the Unit holders or BROG, as the current operator, has an operating interest in the properties burdened by the Texas Royalty properties (as defined herein on page 8) overriding royalty interests. As a result, these parties are not in a position to eliminate or mitigate the above or similar occurrences with respect to such properties and may not become aware of such occurrences prior to any reduction in Trust distributions which may result therefrom. Terrorism and continued hostilities in the Middle East could decrease Trust distributions or the market price of the Units. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as the military or other actions taken in response, cause instability in the global financial and energy markets. Terrorism and sustained military campaigns could adversely affect Trust distributions or the market price of the Units in unpredictable ways, including through the disruption of fuel supplies and markets, increased volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices, or the possibility that the infrastructure on which the operators developing the Underlying Properties rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terror. Unit holders and the Trustee have no influence over the operations on, or future development of, the Underlying Properties. Neither the Trustee nor the Unit holders can influence or control the operations on, or future development of, the Underlying Properties. The failure of an operator to conduct its operations, discharge its obligations, deal with regulatory agencies or comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, in a proper manner could have an adverse effect on the net proceeds payable to the Trust. The current operators developing the Underlying Properties are under no obligation to continue operations on the Underlying Properties. Neither the Trustee nor the Unit holders have the right to replace an operator. The operators developing the Texas Royalty properties have no duty to protect the interests of the Unit holders and do not have sole discretion regarding development activities on the Underlying Properties. Under the terms of a typical operating agreement relating to oil and gas properties, the operator owes a duty to working interest owners to conduct its operations on the properties in a good and workmanlike manner and in accordance with its best judgment of what a prudent operator would do under the same or similar circumstances. BROG is currently the operator of record of the Waddell Ranch overriding royalty interests and in such capacity owes the Trust a contractual duty under the conveyance agreement for that overriding royalty interest to operate the Waddell Ranch properties in good faith and in accordance with a prudent operator standard. The operators of the properties burdened by the Texas Royalty properties overriding royalty interests, however, have no contractual or fiduciary duty to protect the interests of the Trust or the Unit holders other than indirectly through its duty of prudent operations to the unaffiliated owners of the working interests in those properties. In addition, even if an operator, including BROG in the current case of the Waddell Ranch properties (as defined herein on page 8), concludes that a particular development operation is prudent on a property, it may be unable to undertake such activity unless it is approved by the requisite approval of the working interest owners of such properties (typically the owners of at least a majority of the working interests). Even if the Trust concludes that such activities in respect of any of its overriding royalty interests would be in its best interests, it has no right to cause those activities to be undertaken. The operator developing any Underlying Property may transfer its interest in the property without the consent of the Trust or the Unit holders. Any operator developing any of the Underlying Properties may at any time transfer all or part of its interest in the Underlying Properties to another party. Neither the Trust nor the Unit holders are entitled to vote on any transfer of the 6 Table of Contents properties underlying the Royalties, and the Trust will not receive any proceeds of any such transfer. Following any transfer, the transferred property will continue to be subject to the Royalties, but the net proceeds from the transferred property will be calculated separately and paid by the transferee. The transferee will be responsible for all of the transferor obligations relating to calculating, reporting and paying to the Trust the Royalties from the transferred property, and the transferor will have no continuing obligation to the Trust for that property. The operator developing any Underlying Property may abandon the property, thereby terminating the Royalties payable to the Trust. The operators developing the Underlying Properties, or any transferee thereof, may abandon any well or property without the consent of the Trust or the Unit holders if they reasonably believe that the well or property can no longer produce in commercially economic quantities. This could result in the termination of the Royalties relating to the aband1d well or property. The Royalties can be sold and the Trust would be terminated. The Trustee must sell the Royalties if the holders of 75% or more of the Units approve the sale or vote to terminate the Trust. The Trustee must also sell the Royalties if they fail to generate net revenue for the Trust of at least $1,000,000 per year over any consecutive 2 year period. Sale of all of the Royalties will terminate the Trust. The net proceeds of any sale will be distributed to the Unit holders. The sale of the remaining Royalties and the termination of the Trust will be taxable events to the Unit holders. Generally, a Unit holder will realize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized on the sale and termination of the Trust and his adjusted basis in such Units. Gain or loss realized by a Unit holder who is not a dealer with respect to such Units and who has a holding period for the Units of more than 1 year will be treated as long term capital gain or loss except to the extent of any depletion recapture amount, which must be treated as ordinary income. Other federal and state tax issues concerning the Trust are discussed under Note 4 and Note 7 to the Trust financial statements, which are included herein. Each Unit holder should consult his own tax advisor regarding Trust tax compliance matters, including federal and state tax implications concerning the sale of the Royalties and the termination of the Trust. Unit holders have limited voting rights and have limited ability to enforce the Trust rights against the current or future operators developing the Underlying Properties. The voting rights of a Unit holder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Unit holders or for an annual or other periodic re election of the Trustee. The Trust indenture and related trust law permit the Trustee and the Trust to sue BROG, Riverhill Energy Corporation or any other future operators developing the Underlying Properties to compel them to fulfill the terms of the conveyance of the Royalties. If the Trustee does not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of the conveyance, the recourse of the Unit holders would likely be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the Trustee to compel the Trustee to take specified actions. Unit holders probably would not be able to sue BROG, Riverhill Energy Corporation or any other future operators developing the Underlying Properties. Financial information of the Trust is not prepared in accordance with GAAP. The financial statements of the Trust are prepared on a modified cash basis of accounting, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ). Although this basis of accounting is permitted for royalty trusts by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission the ( SEC ), the financial statements of the Trust differ from GAAP financial statements mainly because revenues are not accrued in the month of production and cash reserves may be established which would not be accrued in GAAP financial statements. Further, Trust expenses are recorded when paid and not in the month they were incurred. 7 Table of Contents The limited liability of the Unit holders is uncertain. The Unit holders are not protected from the liabilities of the Trust to the same extent that a shareholder would be protected from a corporation liabilities. The structure of the Trust does not include the interposition of a limited liability entity such as a corporation or limited partnership which would provide further limited liability protection to Unit holders. While the Trustee is liable for any excess liabilities incurred if the Trustee fails to insure that such liabilities are to be satisfied only out of Trust assets, under the laws of Texas, which are unsettled on this point, a holder of Units may be jointly and severally liable for any liability of the Trust if the satisfaction of such liability was not contractually limited to the assets of the Trust and the assets of the Trust and the Trustee are not adequate to satisfy such liability. As a result, Unit holders may be exposed to personal liability. The tax treatment of an investment in Trust Units could be affected by recent and potential legislative changes, possibly on a retroactive basis. U.S. federal tax reform legislation informally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the TCJA ) was enacted December 22, 2017, and makes significant changes to the federal income tax rules applicable to both individuals and entities, including changes to the effective tax rate on a Unit holder allocable share of certain income from the Trust. The TCJA is complex and lacks administrative guidance, thus, Unit holders should consult their tax advisor regarding the TCJA and its effect on an investment in Trust Units. For taxable years beginning after 2017, the highest marginal U.S. federal income tax rates applicable to ordinary income and long term capital gains of individuals are 37% and 20%, respectively. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws or interpretations thereof (including administrative guidance relating to the TCJA) may be applied retroactively and could adversely affect the Trust business, financial condition or results of operations. The Trust is unable to predict whether any changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted, or whether any adverse interpretations will be issued. Any such changes or interpretations could negatively impact the value of an investment in the Trust Units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Trust has not received any written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Act not less than 180 days before December 31, 2019, which comments remain unresolved.
