CIK: 319655
Company Name: SAN JUAN BASIN ROYALTY TRUST
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2020-03-16
Accession Number: 0001193125-20-074869


ITEM 1 BUSINESS The Trust is an express trust created under the laws of the State of Texas by the San Juan Basin Royalty Trust Indenture entered into on November 1, 1980, between Southland Royalty Company ( Southland ) and The Fort Worth National Bank. Effective as of September 30, 2002, the original indenture was amended and restated and, effective as of December 12, 2007, the restated indenture was amended and restated, which we refer to as the Indenture. As a result of a series of mergers and other transactions, the current Trustee of the Trust is BBVA USA (the Trustee ), which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A. The Conveyance and the Royalty Pursuant to the Net Overriding Royalty Conveyance (the Conveyance ) effective November 1, 1980, Southland conveyed to the Trust a 75% net overriding royalty interest (the Royalty ) that burdens certain of Southland oil and natural gas interests (the Subject Interests ) in properties located in the San Juan Basin of northwestern New Mexico (the San Juan Basin ). Subsequent to the Conveyance of the Royalty, through a series of sales, assignments and mergers, Southland successor became Hilcorp San Juan L.P. ( Hilcorp ), which acquired the Subject Interests from Burlington Resources Oil & Gas Company LP ( Burlington ), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of ConocoPhillips on July 31, 2017. The Royalty functions generally as a net profits interest. Under the terms of the Conveyance, the Trust receives 75% of net proceeds from the Subject Interests. The term net proceeds, as used in the Conveyance, means the excess of gross proceeds received by Hilcorp during a particular period over production costs for such period. Gross proceeds means the amount received by Hilcorp (or any subsequent owner of the Subject Interests) from the sale of the production attributable to the Subject Interests, subject to certain adjustments. Production costs generally means costs incurred on an accrual basis by Hilcorp in operating the Subject Interests, including both capital and non capital costs. For example, these costs include development drilling, production and processing costs, applicable taxes and operating charges. However, Hilcorp informed the Trust that, for wells operated by Hilcorp, it generally did not intend to accrue lease operating expenses to the Trust. If production costs exceed gross proceeds in any month, the excess is recovered out of future gross proceeds prior to the making of further payment to the Trust. The Trust is not otherwise liable for any production costs or other costs or liabilities attributable to the Subject Interests or the minerals produced therefrom. If at any time the Trust receives more than the amount due under the Royalty, it is not obligated to return such overpayment, but the amounts payable to it for any subsequent period are reduced by such amount, plus interest, at a rate specified in the Conveyance. The Royalty constitutes the principal asset of the Trust. The Trust beneficial interest in the Royalty is divided into 46,608,796 units (the Units ) representing undivided fractional interests in the beneficial interest of the Trust equal to the number of shares of the common stock of Southland outstanding as of the close of business on November 3, 1980. Each stockholder of Southland of record at the close of business on November 3, 1980 received 1 freely tradable Unit for each share of the common stock of Southland then held. Holders of Units are referred to herein as Unit Holders. As of December 31, 2019, 98% of the Trust estimated proved reserves consisted of natural gas reserves, and 95% of the gross proceeds from the Subject Interests in 2019 were attributable to the production and sale of natural gas by Hilcorp as well as other proceeds. Accordingly, the market price for natural gas produced and sold from the San Juan Basin heavily influences the amount of Trust income available for distribution to the Unit Holders by the Trust and, by extension, the price of the Units. Normally there is greater demand for natural gas used for heating or air conditioning purposes in the summer and winter months than during the rest of the year. The Trustee The primary function of the Trustee is to collect the net proceeds attributable to the Royalty ( Royalty Income ), to pay all expenses and charges of the Trust and to distribute the remaining available income to the 1 Table of Contents Unit Holders. The Trust received approximately $9.9 million and $19.4 million in Royalty Income from Hilcorp in each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. After deducting administrative expenses and accounting for interest income and any change in cash reserves, the Trust distributed approximately $8.1 million and $18.0 million to Unit Holders in each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Trust corpus was approximately $5.5 million and $5.8 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Proceeds from production in the first month are generally received by Hilcorp in the second month, the net proceeds attributable to the Royalty are paid by Hilcorp to the Trustee in the third month, and distribution by the Trustee to the Unit Holders is made in the fourth month. Unit Holders of record as of the last business day of each month (the monthly record date ) will be entitled to receive the calculated monthly distribution amount for such month on or before ten business days after the monthly record date. The amount of each monthly distribution will generally be determined and announced ten days before the monthly record date. The aggregate monthly distribution amount is the excess of (i) the net proceeds attributable to the Royalty paid to the Trustee, plus any decrease in cash reserves previously established for liabilities and contingencies of the Trust, over (ii) the expenses and payments of liabilities of the Trust, plus any net increase in cash reserves. The Trustee may, in its sole discretion, establish a cash reserve for payment of Trust liabilities that are contingent or uncertain or otherwise not currently due and payable. As of December 31, 2019, the Trustee had established cash reserves of $10 million. During the period from June 2019 through October 2019 the Trust collectively utilized cash reserves of $483,000 to pay Trust administrative expenses. The Trustee replenished the cash reserves by $95,000 and $388,000 in November 2019 and December 2019, respectively, to bring the cash reserve balance to the previously established amount of $10 million. The Trustee does not anticipate any increase or decrease to the cash reserves in 2020. Cash being held by the Trustee as cash reserves or pending distribution may be placed, in the Trustee discretion, in obligations issued by (or unconditionally guaranteed by) the United States or any agency thereof, repurchase agreements secured by obligations issued by the United States or any agency thereof, certificates of deposit of banks having capital, surplus and undivided profits in excess of $50 million or m1y market funds that have been rated at least AAm by Standard & Poor and at least Aa by Moody s, subject, in each case, to certain other qualifying conditions. Currently, such funds are placed in interest bearing negotiable order of withdrawal accounts whose funds are either insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or secured by other assets of the Trustee. The other powers and duties of the Trustee are set forth in the Indenture and include the prosecution and defense of claims by and against the Trust, the engagement of consultants and professionals and the payment of Trust liabilities. If the Trustee determines that the Trust does not have sufficient funds to pay its liabilities, the Trustee may borrow funds on behalf of the Trust, in which case no distributions will be made to Unit Holders until such borrowings are repaid in full. The Trustee may not sell or dispose of any part of the assets of the Trust without the affirmative vote from the Unit Holders of 75% of all of the Units outstanding; however, the Trustee may sell up to 1% of the value of the Royalty (as determined pursuant to the Indenture) during any 12 month period without the consent of the Unit Holders if it determines such a sale is in the best interest of the Unit Holders. The Trust does not operate the Subject Interests and is not empowered to carry on any business activity. The Trust has no employees, officers or directors. All administrative functions of the Trust are performed by the Trustee. Under the Indenture, the Trustee may act in its discretion in carrying out its powers and performing its duties and is liable only for fraud or for acts and omissions in bad faith. The Trustee is not liable for any act or omission of its agents or employees unless the Trustee acted in bad faith in its selection and retention of such agents or employees. The Indenture provides that the Trustee and its officers, agents and employees must be indemnified and receive reimbursement of expenses from the assets of the Trust for liabilities and claims incurred in the administration of the Trust, except for liabilities and claims arising from the Trustee fraud or bad faith. 2 Table of Contents Duration of the Trust The Trust will terminate if (a) its gross revenue for each of 2 successive years is less than $1 million per year or, if earlier, (b) the Unit Holders of at least 75% of all of the Units outstanding vote in favor of termination. Upon termination of the Trust, the Trustee must sell the Royalty and distribute the proceeds to Unit Holders after satisfying or establishing reserves to satisfy the liabilities of the Trust. Hilcorp The sale of San Juan Basin assets from Burlington to Hilcorp closed on July 31, 2017. Hilcorp is the operator of the majority of the Subject Interests, and as a result, Hilcorp actions could have a material impact on the results of operations and Hilcorp could have interests that conflict with the interests of the Trust and the Unit Holders. The Subject Interests that are not operated by Hilcorp are operated by other operators, some of which may be affiliated with Hilcorp. As an operator, Hilcorp has the obligation under the Conveyance to conduct its operations in accordance with reasonable and prudent business judgment and good oil and natural gas field practices. The development of the Subject Interests is conducted pursuant to operating and similar agreements to which the Trust is not a party and under which the Trust has no control or other rights to determine the location, timing and other key aspects of development and maintenance that may materially impact results of operations. Neither the Trustee nor the Unit Holders can influence or control the operation or future development of the Subject Interests. Hilcorp interests may conflict with those of the Trust and the Unit Holders in situations involving the development, maintenance, operation or abandonment of the Subject Interests. Hilcorp has the right to abandon any well when, in its opinion, such well ceases to produce or is not capable of producing oil and natural gas in paying quantities, even though such well is still generating revenue for the Unit Holders. Hilcorp reserves the right to not participate in operations on the Subject Interests when it has a right to do so under the applicable operating or similar agreement. Hilcorp may make decisions with respect to expenditures and decisions to allocate resources to projects in other areas that adversely affect the Subject Interests, including reducing expenditures on these properties, which could cause oil and natural gas production to decline at a faster rate and thereby result in lower cash distributions by the Trust in the future. In addition, Hilcorp is not obligated to the Trust to maintain any particular types or amounts of insurance, and insurance may not be commercially available at adequate levels to cover its operational hazards at all times during the life of the Trust. If a well is damaged, Hilcorp would have no obligation to drill a replacement well or otherwise compensate the Trust for the loss. The Trust does not have insurance or indemnification to protect against losses or delays in receiving proceeds from such events. Hilcorp also is responsible, subject to the terms of an agreement with the Trust, for marketing the production from such properties, either under existing sales contracts or under future arrangements, at the best prices and on the best terms it shall deem reasonably obtainable in the circumstances. Additionally, Hilcorp is obligated under the Conveyance to maintain books and records sufficient to determine the amounts payable to the Trustee. Additional Information The principal office of the Trust is located at 2200 Post Oak Blvd., Floor 18, Houston, Texas 77056 (toll free teleph1 number (866) 809 4553). The Trust makes available (free of charge) its annual, quarterly and current reports (and any amendments thereto) filed with the SEC through its website at www.sjbrt.com as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material with or to the SEC. The Trust materials filed with the SEC are available at the SEC internet site, www.sec.gov . This site contains reports and, as applicable, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding the Trust and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The Trust is a widely held fixed investment trust ( WHFIT ) classified as a non mortgage widely held fixed investment trust ( NMWHFIT ) for federal income tax purposes. The Trustee, 2200 Post Oak Blvd., Floor 18, 3 Table of Contents Houston, Texas 77056 (toll free teleph1 number (866) 809 4553, email address sjt.us@bbva.com ), is the representative of the Trust that will provide tax information in accordance with the applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations governing the information reporting requirements of the Trust as a WHFIT and a NMWHFIT. The tax information is generally posted by the Trustee on the Trust website www.sjbrt.com . ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Not required. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS N1 ITEM 2 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES 
