CIK: 352955
Company Name: CKX LANDS INC 
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2020-03-16
Accession Number: 0001437749-20-005195


ITEM 1 BUSINESS Business Description CKX Lands, Inc., a Louisiana corporation, began operations in 1930 under the name Calcasieu Real Estate & Oil Co., Inc. It was originally organized as a spin off by a bank operating in southwest Louisiana. The purpose of the spin off was to form an entity to hold non producing mineral interests which regulatory authorities required the bank to dispose of. Over the years, as some of the mineral interests began producing, the Company used part of the proceeds to acquire land. In 1990, the Company made its largest acquisition when it was 1 of four purchasers that bought a fifty percent undivided interest in approximately 35,575 acres in southwest Louisiana. Today the Company income is derived from mineral royalties, timber sales and surface payments from its lands. CKX receives income from royalty interests and mineral leases related to oil and gas production, timber sales, and surface rents. Although CKX is active in the management of its land and planting and harvesting its timber, CKX is passive in the production of income from oil and gas activities in that CKX does not explore for oil and gas or operate wells. These oil and gas activities are performed by unrelated third parties. Oil and gas royalties are paid by the operators who own the wells. Timber income is paid by the highest bidder for the timber. There are several mills that compete for timber. Surface income is received for farming, right of ways or other surface land uses. The prices paid for oil, gas and timber depend on national and international market conditions. Prices paid for surface leases depend on regional and local market conditions. The source of all raw materials for the Company is the land itself. All oil and gas from our lands will eventually deplete, but we have no access to depletion information. Timber and agricultural crops are renewable resources. The Company 3 reportable business segments are oil and gas, timber, and surface. Segment revenue and related business segment financial information are included in the notes to financial statements. The Company oil and gas income fluctuates as new oil and gas production is discovered on Company land and then ultimately depletes or becomes commercially uneconomical to produce. The volatility in the daily commodity pricing of a barrel of oil or a thousand cubic feet ( MCF ) of gas will also cause fluctuations in the Company oil and gas income. Oil and gas revenues were 62% of the Company total revenues in 2019 and 49% in 2018. CKX has small royalty interests in 29 different producing oil and gas fields. The size of each royalty interest is determined by the Company net ownership in the acreage unit for the well. CKX royalty interests range from 0.0045% for the smallest to 7.62% for the largest. As the Company does not own or operate the wells, it does not have access to any reserve information. Timber income is derived from sales of timber on Company lands. The timber income will fluctuate depending on our ability to secure stumpage agreements in the regional markets, timber stand age, and or stumpage commodity prices. Timber is a renewable resource that the Company actively manages. 1 Surface income is earned from various recurring and non recurring sources. Recurring surface income is earned from lease arrangements for farming, recreational and commercial uses. Non recurring surface income can include such activities as pipeline right of ways, and temporary worksite rentals. In managing its lands, the Company relies on and has established relationships with real estate, forestry, environmental and agriculture consultants as well as attorneys with legal expertise in general corporate matters, real estate, and minerals. The Company actively searches for additional real estate for purchase in Louisiana with a focus on southwest Louisiana. When evaluating unimproved real estate for purchase, the Company will consider numerous characteristics including but not limited to timber fitness, agriculture fitness, future development opportunities and or mineral potential. When evaluating improved real estate for purchase, the Company will consider characteristics including but not limited to geographic location, quality of existing revenue streams, and or quality of the improvements. CKX owns a 100% interest in 7,484 acres and undivided interests ranging from 1660% to 77.778% in 43,4784 acres, resulting in an ownership of approximately 13,972 net acres. CKX does not perform or cause to be performed oil and gas producing activities inasmuch as (1) we do not search for crude oil or natural gas in their natural states; (2) we do not acquire property for the purpose of exploration or the removing of oil and gas; and (3) we are not involved in construction, drilling and or production activities necessary to retrieve oil and gas. The Company does not spend any m1y on research and development. Employees The Company has 1 employee, who is part time. The Company is not subject to union contracts nor does the Company have any medical benefit, pension, profit sharing, option or deferred compensation programs. Customers The Company customers are those who have mineral leases on Company lands, purchase timber in competitive bids or execute surface leases for farming, hunting, right of ways or other purposes. During 2019, the Company received approximately 4126% of its total revenues from the following customers Customer Revenue Type % of Total Revenue Pintail Oil & Gas LLC Oil & Gas 1326 % Texegy Operating Company LLC Oil & Gas 8.96 % Kaiser Frances Oil Company Oil & Gas 6.7 % Riceland Petroleum Company Oil & Gas 6.67 % C6 Operating LLC Oil & Gas 5.7 % Loss of cash receipts from any of these customers or revenue streams would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Environmental and Other Governmental Regulations The Company does not need government approval of its principal products or services except that the State of Louisiana must permit the size and location of all oil and gas producing units. The operator of the oil and gas units is responsible for this permitting process. The operators of the wells are responsible for complying with environmental and other governmental regulations. However, should an operator abandon a well located on Company land without following prescribed procedures, the land owners could possibly be held responsible. The Company does not believe this would have a material effect on its financial condition. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Significant Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following risks, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations in future periods. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations in future periods. 2 A significant portion of our revenues is derived from oil and gas activities on our lands. We rely on third parties to conduct that activity. We rely on third parties to conduct oil and gas exploration and production activity on our lands. If we are not successful in attracting third parties to conduct that activity or if there is any significant interruption in existing activity on our lands, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, would be adversely affected. Additionally, our ability to generate future earnings depends on third parties finding new production on our land to replace present production as it is depleted. Oil and gas prices, as well as new technology, will affect the possibility of replacing present production. Our revenues could be negatively impacted by declines in commodity prices for oil, natural gas, and timber, among others. We earn a significant portion of our operating income from the sale of commodities produced from our lands oil and gas, and timber. Fluctuations in the prices for these commodities will directly impact our cash flow, net income and financial condition. Additionally, because certain of our lands are leased to farmers, declines in the commodity prices for the crops they grow may impact their ability to make lease payments, and therefore could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations and properties could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other adverse weather events, natural disasters, or other significant disruptions. Our properties are located principally in southwest Louisiana, where major hurricanes and flooding have occurred. Depending on where any hurricane makes landfall or flooding occurs, our properties could be significantly damaged, and income producing activities on our properties could be disrupted. In addition, the occurrence and frequency of hurricanes and flooding in Louisiana could also negatively impact demand for the use of our real estate assets because of perceptions of hurricane and flooding risks. In addition to hurricanes, the occurrence of other natural disasters and climate conditions in Louisiana, such as tornadoes, fires, unusually heavy or prolonged rain, droughts, and heat waves, could have an adverse effect on our ability to use our properties or realize income from our properties. We have approximately 10,601 net acres of timberland in various stages of growth or age classes. A typical pine timber stand will be harvested after 30 to 35 years of growth with some thinning occurring during this time. A hardwood stand will be harvested after 45 to 50 years of growth. A natural disaster can have a material adverse effect on timber growth, reducing its value. Natural disasters that could affect our timber lands include a hurricane, tornado, high winds, heavy rains and flooding, and or fire caused by lightning or other sources. If any of the events described above occurs, we may experience disruptions to our operations and damage to our properties, which could have an adverse effect on our business, our financial condition, our results of operations, and our cash flows. Our land holdings are concentrated in southwest Louisiana, and we therefore may suffer economic harm because of adverse conditions in that region. Our land holdings are located principally in southwest Louisiana. Due to the concentration of our properties in this area, our performance is dependent on local economic conditions. This area has experienced periods of economic decline in the past and may do so in the future. We rely on third party managers for day to day property management of certain of our properties. We rely on local third party managers for the day to day management of our timberland properties. The cash flows from our timberland properties may be adversely affected if the property manager fails to provide quality services. These third party managers may fail to manage our properties effectively or in accordance with the terms of our agreement with them. If any of these events occur, we could incur losses or face liabilities from the loss or injury to our property or to persons at our properties. In addition, disputes may arise between us and third party managers, and we may incur significant expenses to resolve those disputes or terminate the relevant agreement with the third parties and locate and engage competent and cost effective alternative service providers to manage the relevant properties. Additionally, third party managers may manage and own other properties that may compete with our properties, which may result in conflicts of interest and decisions regarding the operation of our properties that are not in our best interests. Potential environmental liabilities could result in substantial costs to us or cause our land to lose value. Under federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be required to investigate and clean up the effects of releases of hazardous substances or petroleum products on our properties because of current or past ownership or operation of oil and gas activities on our lands. If previously unidentified environmental problems arise, we may have to make substantial payments, which could adversely affect our cash flow. As an owner of properties, we may have to pay for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred in connection with a contamination. The law typically imposes cleanup responsibility and liability regardless of whether an owner knew of or caused the contamination. Changes in environmental regulations or the discovery of environmental damage on our lands may cause the value of our lands to decline, may impact the development potential of our undeveloped land or could increase operating costs due to the cost of complying with new regulations. 3 Our overall business is subject to risks associated with the real estate industry. We are subject to all risks related to investment in real estate, many of which relate to the general lack of liquidity of real estate investments, including, but not limited to changes in general or local economic conditions where our properties are located; lack of availability of financing at favorable rates (or at all) that may render the purchase, sale or refinancing of a property more difficult or unattractive; changes in real estate and zoning laws; and increases in real estate taxes and insurance costs. Our common stock may not have an active, liquid, and orderly trading market, and our stock price may be volatile. Our common stock may not have an active, liquid, and orderly trading market due to the relatively low number of shares that are available for trading. Active, liquid, and orderly trading markets usually result in less price volatility and more efficiency in carrying out purchase and sale orders. The trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause price variations to occur. The market price of our common stock could also vary significantly because of a number of other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends; changes in our results of operations or cash flows; publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; changes in market valuations of similar companies; speculation in the press or investment community; the realization of any of the other risk factors presented in this annual report; the extent of investor interest in our common stock; our underlying asset value; investor confidence in the stock and bond markets, generally; changes in tax laws; and general market and economic conditions. If the per share trading price of our common stock declines significantly, stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at or above the price paid for them. We cannot assure stockholders that the per share trading price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the price of their common stock. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and our ability to pay dividends on, and the per share trading price of, our common stock. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were not effective in the past . Our principal executive and financial officer evaluated our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, and concluded that as of that date, they were not effective due to material weaknesses. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In addition, as a result of the material weaknesses, our principal executive and financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2018, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. We remediated our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting throughout 2019, and our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2019. Nevertheless, we have only 1 part time employee, who is both our principal executive and financial officer. In the future, our lack of internal staff could lead to new material weaknesses that would render our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting ineffective. Until any such future material weaknesses are remediated, they could lead to errors in our financial results and other public filings, which could have an adverse effect on our business, our financial condition, our results of operations, and our cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 4 ITEM 2 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES 
