CIK: 7039
Company Name: TRECORA RESOURCES
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2020-03-13
Accession Number: 0000007039-20-000050


ITEM 1 Business. General Trecora Resources (the "Company") was incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1967. The Company's principal business activities are the manufacturing of various specialty petrochemicals products and specialty waxes and the provision of custom processing services. Unless the context requires otherwise, references to "we," "us," "our," and the "Company" are intended to mean consolidated Trecora Resources and its subsidiaries. This document includes the following abbreviations (1) TREC Trecora Resources (2) TOCCO Texas Oil & Chemical Co. II, Inc. Wholly owned subsidiary of TREC and parent of SHR and TC (3) SHR South Hampton Resources, Inc. Specialty petrochemicals segment and parent of GSPL (4) GSPL Gulf State Pipe Line Co, Inc. Pipeline support for the specialty petrochemicals segment (5) TC Trecora Chemical, Inc. Specialty waxes segment The Company owns a 33% interest in Al Masane Al Kobra Mining Company ("AMAK"), a Saudi Arabian closed joint stock mining company, which is engaged in the commercial production of copper and zinc concentrates and silver and gold dor . On October 2, 2019, we announced that we had entered into a Share Sale and Purchase Agreement (as amended, the Purchase Agreement ) pursuant to which we have agreed to sell our entire investment in AMAK. On January 16, 2020 , the Purchase Agreement was amended to allow additional time for the parties to obtain certain required governmental approvals. The Amendment also provides that, if closing does not occur on or before March 31, 2020 , and the Company determines in its sole discretion to further extend such date, then an amount equal to 50% of the approximately $35 million non refundable deposit will be forfeited to the Company as liquidated damages and shall not be applied to the purchase price at closing. AMAK's historical financial results for the periods presented are reflected in our consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations. For further details, refer to Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company also has a 55% interest in Pioche Ely Valley Mines, Inc. ("PEVM"), a Nevada mining corporation, which presently does not conduct any substantial business activity but owns undeveloped properties in the United States. In November 2019, PEVM entered into a sales contract which, upon completion of due diligence, may lead to liquidation of substantially all of its remaining assets. Upon closing of the sale, PEVM will be dissolved. Any proceeds from the sale will primarily be used to repay outstanding indebtedness of PEVM owed to the Company. Business Segments We operate in 2 business segments; the manufacturing of various specialty petrochemicals products and the manufacturing of specialty waxes. Our specialty petrochemicals products segment is conducted through SHR, a Texas corporation. SHR owns and operates a specialty petrochemicals facility in Silsbee, Texas which produces high purity hydrocarbons and other petroleum based products including isopentane, normal pentane, isohexane and hexane. These products are used in the production of polyethylene, packaging, polypropylene, expandable polystyrene, poly iso urethane foams, crude oil from the Canadian tar sands, and in the catalyst support industry. Our specialty petrochemicals products are typically transported to customers by rail car, tank truck, iso container, and by ship. SHR owns all of the capital stock of GSPL, a Texas corporation, which owns and operates pipelines that connect the SHR facility to a natural gas line, to SHR's truck and rail loading terminal and to a major petroleum products pipeline owned by an unaffiliated third party. SHR also provides custom processing services at its Silsbee facility. Our specialty waxes segment is conducted through TC, a Texas corporation, located in Pasadena, Texas which produces specialty polyethylene and poly alpha olefin waxes and provides custom processing services. The specialty polyethylene waxes are used in markets from paints and inks to adhesives, coatings, and PVC lubricants. The highly specialized synthetic poly alpha olefin waxes are used in applications such as t1r in printers and as additives for candles. These waxes are sold in solid form as pastilles or, for large adhesive companies, in bulk liquid form. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 1 Table of Contents United States Specialty Petrochemicals Operations SHR's specialty petrochemicals facility is located in Silsbee, Texas approximately 30 miles north of Beaumont and 90 miles east of Houston. The base SHR facility consists of five operating units which, while interconnected, make distinct products through differing processes (i) a Penhex Unit; (ii) a Reformer Unit; (iii) a Cyclo pentane Unit; (iv) an Advanced Reformer unit; and (v) an Isomerization Unit. In addition to the base plant, SHR operates 3 proprietary chemical production facilities for toll processing customers. The Penhex Unit currently has the permitted capacity to process approximately 11,000 barrels per day of fresh feed. The Reformer Unit, the Advanced Reformer unit, and the Cyclo Pentane Unit further process streams produced by the Penhex Unit. The facility generally consists of equipment commonly found in most petrochemical facilities such as fractionation towers and hydrogen treaters, except the facility is adapted to produce specialized products that are high purity and very consistent with precise specifications that are utilized in the petrochemical industry as solvents, additives, blowing agents and cooling agents. In 2015, we constructed and started up D Train, a new Penhex production unit at our Silsbee facility. The D Train expansion increased our capacity by approximately 6,000 barrels per day of fresh feed. Our present total capacity is 13,000 barrels per day of fresh feed; however, we are currently only permitted to process 11,000 barrels per day. During 2018, we constructed a 4,000 barrels per day Advanced Reformer unit to increase our capability to upgrade by products produced from the PenHex Unit and to provide security of hydrogen supply to the plant. We believe we have sufficient pentane capacity to maintain our share of market growth for the foreseeable future. The Advanced Reformer, Reformer and Isomerization units are operated as needed to support the Penhex and Cyclo pentane Units. Consequently, utilization rates of these units are driven by production from the Penhex Unit. Operating utilization rates are affected by product demand, raw material composition, mechanical integrity, and unforeseen natural occurrences, such as weather events. The nature of the petrochemical process demands periodic shut downs for decoking and other mechanical repairs. In support of the specialty petrochemicals operation, we own approximately 100 storage tanks with total capacity approaching 285,000 barrels, and 127 acres of land at the plant site, 92 acres of which are developed. We also own a truck and railroad loading terminal consisting of storage tanks, nine rail spurs, and truck and tank car loading facilities on approximately 63 acres of which 33 acres are developed. We obtain substantially all our feedstock from a sole supplier. The agreement is primarily a logistics arrangement whereby the supplier buys or contracts for feedstock material and utilizes their tank and pipeline connections to transport into our pipeline. A contract was signed in August 2015 with a seven year term with subsequent 1 year renewals unless canceled by either party with 180 days' notice. GSPL owns and operates 2 8 inch diameter pipelines and five 4 inch diameter pipelines, aggregating approximately 70 miles in length connecting SHR's facility to (1) a natural gas line, (2) SHR's truck and rail loading terminal and (3) a major petroleum products pipeline system owned by an unaffiliated third party. All pipelines are operated within Texas Railroad Commission and DOT regulations for maintenance and integrity. We sell our products predominantly to large domestic and international companies. Products are marketed via personal contact and through continued long term relationships. Sales personnel visit customer facilities regularly and also attend various petrochemical conferences throughout the world. We also provide information about our products and services through our website. We utilize both formula and non formula based pricing depending upon a customer's requirements and competitive situtations. Under formula pricing the price charged to the customer is primarily based on a formula which includes as a comp1nt the average cost of feedstock over the prior month. With this pricing mechanism, product prices move in conjunction with feedstock prices. However, because the formulas use an average feedstock price from the prior month, the movement of prices will trail the movement of costs, and formula prices may or may not reflect our actual feedstock cost for the month during which the product is actually sold. In addition, while formula pricing can reduce product margins during periods of increasing feedstock costs, during periods of decreasing feedstock costs formula pricing will follow feed costs down but will retain higher margins during the period by trailing the movement of costs by approximately 30 days. See additional discussion of concentration of revenue and corresponding receivables as disclosed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2 Table of Contents United States Specialty Waxes Operations TC is a leading manufacturer of specialty waxes and also provides custom processing services from its 27.5 acre plant located in Pasadena, Texas. TC provides custom manufacturing, hydrogenation, distillation, blending, forming and packaging of finished and intermediate products and wax products for coatings, hot melt adhesives and lubricants. Situated near the Houston Ship Channel, the facility allows for easy access to international shipping and direct loading to rail or truck. The location is within reach of major chemical pipelines and on site access to a steam pipeline and dedicated hydrogen line create a platform for expansion of both wax production capacity and custom processing capabilities. We manufacture a variety of hard, high melting point, low to medium viscosity polyethylene wax products along with a wide range of other waxes and lubricants. These products are used in a variety of applications including performance additives for hot melt adhesives; penetration and melting point modifiers for paraffin and microcrystalline waxes; lubrication and processing aides for plastics, PVC, rubber; and dry stir in additives for inks. In oxidized forms, applications also include use in textile emulsions. TC also provides turnkey custom manufacturing services including quality assurance, transportation and process optimization. The plant has high vacuum distillation capability for the separation of temperature sensitive materials. We have a fully equipped laboratory and pilot plant facility and a highly trained, technically proficient team of engineers and chemists suited to handle the rapid deployment of new custom processes and development of new wax products. TC's custom manufacturing services provide a range of specialized capabilities to chemical and industrial customer including synthesis, hydrogenation, distillation, forming and propoxylation in addition to a number of other chemical processes. United States Mineral Interests Our only mineral interest in the United States is our 55% ownership interest in an inactive corporation, PEVM. PEVM's properties include 48 patented and 5 unpatented claims totaling approximately 1,500 acres. All of the claims are located in Lincoln County, NV. In November 2019, PEVM entered into a sales contract which, upon completion of due diligence, may lead to liquidation of substantially all of its remaining assets. Upon closing of the sale, PEVM will be dissolved. Any proceeds from the sale will primarily be used to repay outstanding indebtedness of PEVM owed to the Company. Environmental Matters pertaining to the environment are discussed in , Item 1A. Risk Factors, I, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes 2 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In 1993 during remediation of a small spill area, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality ("TCEQ") required SHR to drill a well to check for groundwater contamination under the spill area. 2 pools of hydrocarbons were discovered to be floating on the groundwater at a depth of approximately 25 feet. 1 pool is under the site of a former gas processing plant owned and operated by Sinclair, Arco and others before its purchase by SHR in 1981 Analysis of the material indicates it entered the ground prior to SHR's acquisition of the property. The other pool is under the original SHR facility and analysis indicates the material was deposited decades ago. Tests conducted have determined that the hydrocarbons are contained on the property and not migrating in any direction. The recovery process was initiated in June 1998 and approximately $53,000 was spent setting up the system. The recovery is proceeding as planned and is expected to continue for many years until the pools are reduced to acceptable levels. Expenses of recovery and periodic migration testing are being recorded as normal operating expenses. Expenses for future recovery are expected to stabilize and be less per annum than the initial set up cost, although there is no assurance of this. The light hydrocarbon recovered from the former gas plant site is compatible with our normal Penhex feedstock and is accumulated and transferred into the Penhex feedstock tank. The material recovered from under the original SHR site is accumulated and sold as a by product. Approximately 78, 144, and 80 barrels were recovered during 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. The recovered material had a value of approximately $4,100, $5,800, and $4,200 during 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Consulting engineers estimate that as much as 20,000 barrels of recoverable material may be available to us for use in our process or for sale. The final volume present and the ability to recover it are both highly speculative issues due to the area over which it is spread and the fragmented nature of the pockets of hydrocarbon. We have drilled additional wells periodically to further delineate the boundaries of the pools and to ensure that migration has not taken place. These tests confirmed that no migration of the hydrocarbon pools has occurred. The TCEQ has deemed the current action plan acceptable and reviews the plan on a semi annual basis. Personnel The number of our regular, U.S. based employees was 270, 280, and 324 for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , respectively. Of these employees, n1 are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Regular employees are defined as active executive, management, professional, technical and wage employees who work full time or part time for the Company and are covered by our benefit plans and programs. Our workforce has decreased primarily due to completion of capital projects at our facilities including a workforce downsizing at SHR in December 2018. 3 Table of Contents Competition The specialty petrochemicals, specialty waxes, and mining industries are highly competitive. There is competition within the industries and also with other industries in supplying the needs of both industrial and individual consumers. We compete with other firms in the sale or purchase of needed goods and services and employ all methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate for such purposes. See further discussion in , Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investment in AMAK As of December 31, 2019, we owned a 33% interest in AMAK. Location, Access and Transportation. The facility site is located in Najran province in southwestern Saudi Arabia. Najran, the capital of the province of the same name, is approximately 700 km southeast of Jeddah. The site is located 145 km northwest of Najran, midway between the outpost of Rihab and the district town of Sufah. A modern, paved highway extends from Najran through the town of Habuna passing by the project site and on to Sufah. Another modern, paved highway extends west from the town of Tirima approximately 30 km to the Asir provincial line, becomes a four lane divided highway, and intersects with a highway leading to Khamis Mushait and Abha. A joining highway then extends down the western slope of the Sarawat mountains to the coastal highway which follows the coast south to the Port of Jazan. The latter is the route AMAK's trucks carry concentrate to the port for export. Conditions to Retain Title. The Saudi government granted the Company a mining lease for the Al Masane area comprising approximately 44 square kilometers or approximately 10,870 acres on May 22, 1993 (the "Lease") under Royal Decree No. M 17. The Lease was assigned to AMAK in December 2008. The initial term of the Lease is thirty years beginning May 22, 1993, with AMAK having the option to renew or extend the term of the Lease for additional periods not to exceed twenty years. Under the Lease, AMAK is obligated to pay advance surface rental in the amount of 10,000 Saudi riyals (approximately $2,667 at the current exchange rate) per square kilometer per year (approximately $117,300 annually) during the term of the Lease. In addition, AMAK must pay income tax in accordance with the laws of Saudi Arabia and pay all infrastructure costs. The Lease gives the Saudi Arabian government priority to purchase any gold production from the project, as well as the right to purchase up to 10% of the annual production of other minerals on the same terms and conditions then available to other similar buyers and at current prices then prevailing in the free market. Furthermore, the Lease contains provisions requiring that preferences be given to Saudi Arabian suppliers and contractors and that AMAK employ Saudi Arabian citizens and provide training to Saudi Arabian personnel. In November 2015 AMAK received notification of final approval for additional licenses and leases. The approval includes an additional 151 square kilometers ("km 2" ) of territory contiguous to AMAK's current 44 km 2 mine. The new territory comprises the Guyan and Qatan exploration licenses covering 151 km 2 , and within the Guyan exploration license, a 10 km 2 mining lease, which has potential for significant gold recovery. Under the new leases, AMAK is required to pay surface rental of SR 110,000 (approximately $29,333) for a period of 20 years expiring in 2035. Rock Formations and Mineralization. 3 mineralized z1s, the Saadah, Al Houra and Moyeath, have been outlined by diamond drilling. The Saadah and Al Houra z1s occur in a volcanic sequence that consists of 2 mafic felsic sequences with interbedded exhalative cherts and metasedimentary rocks. The Moyeath z1 was discovered after the completion of underground development in 1980. It is located along an angular unconformity with underlying felsic volcanics and shales. The principle sulphide minerals in all of the z1s are pyrite, sphalerite, and chalcopyrite. The precious metals occur chiefly in tetrahedrite and as tellurides and electrum. Description of Current Property Condition. The AMAK facility includes an underground mine, ore treatment plant and related infrastructures. The ore treatment plant is comprised of primary crushing, ore storage, SAG milling and pebble crushing, secondary ball milling, pre flotation, copper and zinc flotation, concentrate thickening, tailings filtration, cyanide leaching, reagent handling, tailings dam and utilities. Related infrastructure includes a 300 man capacity camp for single status accommodation for expatriates and Saudi Arabian employees, an on site medical facility, a service building for 300 employees, on site diesel generation of 15 megawatts, potable water supply primarily from an underground aquifer, sewage treatment plant and an assay laboratory. The facilities at the Port of Jazan are comprised of unloading facilities, concentrate storage and reclamation and ship loading facilities. The above ground ore processing facility became fully operational during the second half of 2012 Late in the fourth quarter of 2015, AMAK temporarily closed the operation to preserve the assets in the ground while initiating steps to improve efficiencies and optimize operations. The plant resumed operation in the fourth quarter of 2016 and operating rates, metal recoveries and concentrate quality has continued to improve since. AMAK shipped approximately 65,000, 58,000, and 28,000 metric tons of copper and zinc concentrate to outside smelters during 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. In 2014 AMAK initiated operation of its precious metal recovery circuit at the mill 4 Table of Contents and produced gold and silver dor intermittently through 2014 and 2015. The precious metals circuit was recommissi1d in the fourth quarter of 2017 and produced commercial quantities of gold and silver bearing dor in 2018. Saudi Industrial Development Fund ("SIDF") Loan and Guarantee On October 24, 2010, we executed a limited guarantee in favor of the SIDF guaranteeing up to 41% of the SIDF loan to AMAK in the principal amount of 330,000,000 Saudi Riyals (US$88,000,000) (the "Loan"). As a condition of the Loan, SIDF required all shareholders of AMAK to execute personal or corporate guarantees totaling 16255% of the overall Loan amount. As ownership percentages have changed over time, the loan guarantee allocation has not changed. The other AMAK shareholders provided personal guarantees. We were the only AMAK shareholder providing a corporate guarantee. The loan was required in order for AMAK to fund construction of the underground and above ground portions of its mining project in southwest Saudi Arabia and to provide working capital for commencement of operations. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 Table of Contents Accounting Treatment of Investment in AMAK . We have significant influence over the operating and financial policies of AMAK and therefore, account for it using the equity method. We have 3 representatives on the Board of Directors of AMAK. 2 representatives serve on the Audit Committee, 1 as Chair, and the third representative serves as Chair on the Commercial Committee of AMAK. AMAK is effectively self operating under a new, experienced management team. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We assess our investment in AMAK for impairment when events are identified, or there are changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount of the investment might not be recoverable. To perform our assessment we consider operating results, recoverable ore reserves, and mineral prices. 6 Table of Contents Available Information We will provide paper copies of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, our quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, our current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports, all as filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), free of charge upon written or oral request to Trecora Resources, 1650 Hwy 6 S, Suite 190, Sugar Land, TX 77478, (281) 980 5522 These reports are also available free of charge on our website, www.trecora.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). SHR also has a website at www.southhamptonr.com, TC has a website at www.trecchem.com, and AMAK has a website at www.amak.com.sa. These websites and the information contained on or connected to them are not incorporated by reference herein to the SEC filings. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to a variety of risks inherent in the global specialty petrochemicals, specialty waxes and mining (due to our investment in AMAK) businesses. Many of these risk factors are not within our control and could adversely affect our business, results of operations or our financial condition. Consummation of the sale of the Company's equity interest in AMAK is subject to a number of closing conditions, including receipt of certain governmental approvals, that may not be satisfied, and the closing of the sale may be delayed or the sale may not be completed as contemplated, or at all. We have entered into the Purchase Agreement with AMAK and certain other existing shareholders of AMAK (collectively, the Purchasers ) pursuant to which we have agreed to sells our 333% equity interest in AMAK to the Purchasers. However, we cannot guarantee when, or whether the sale will be completed. The closing of the sale is subject to closing conditions, including the receipt of certain governmental approvals from the Saudi Arabian Deputy Ministry for Mineral Resources and the SIDF (with respect to release of our limited guarantee of the Loan (as described in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements)). If the closing conditions are not satisfied or waived (to the extent any such condition may be waived), in either a timely manner or at all, the closing of the sale may be delayed or may not be completed as contemplated, or at all, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the transaction. In addition, the market price of our common stock may reflect an assumption that the pending sale will occur and on a timely basis, and the failure to do so may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We rely on a limited number of customers, including 1 customer that represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue in 2019. A significant change in customer relationships or in customer demand for our products could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We rely on a limited number of customers. Our largest customer, ExxonMobil and its affiliates, represented approximately 15.0% of our consolidated revenues in 2019. A significant reduction in sales to any of our key customers could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could result from our key customers further diversifying their product sourcing, experiencing financial difficulty or undergoing consolidation. Our industry is highly competitive, and we may lose market share to other producers of specialty petrochemicals, specialty waxes or other products that can be substituted for our products, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competition from both large international producers and from smaller regional competitors. Our competitors may improve their competitive position in our core markets by successfully introducing new products, improving their manufacturing processes or expanding their capacity or manufacturing facilities. Further, some of our competitors benefit from advantageous cost positions that could make it increasingly difficult for us to compete in certain markets. If we are unable to keep pace with our competitors' product and manufacturing process innovations, cost position or alternative value proposition, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, we face increased competition from companies that may have greater financial resources and different cost structures, alternative values or strategic goals than us. We have a portfolio of businesses across which we must allocate our available resources, while competing companies may specialize in only certain of our product lines. As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors, and such competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them. Industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and stronger competitors in the markets in which we compete, and competitors also may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with existing or potential customers or suppliers. We may have to lower the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time, trying to maintain or improve revenue and gross margin. Loss of key employees, our inability to attract and retain new qualified employees or our inability to keep our employees 7 Table of Contents focused on our strategies and goals could have an adverse impact on our operations. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees including those in managerial, technical, safety, sales and marketing positions. We must also keep employees focused on our strategies and goals. The failure to hire, or loss of, key employees in a competitive industry could have a significant adverse impact on our operations. In addition, an important comp1nt of our competitive performance is our ability to operate safely and efficiently, including our ability to manage expenses and minimize the production of low margin products on an on going basis. This requires continuous management focus, including technological improvements, safe operations, cost control and productivity enhancements. The extent to which we manage these factors will impact our performance relative to competition. If the availability of our raw materials is limited, we may be unable to produce some of our products in quantities sufficient to meet customer demand or on favorable economic terms, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We use polyethylene waxes in our specialty waxes segment and use additional non primary raw materials in the production of our products in the specialty petrochemicals segment and specialty waxes segment. Suppliers may not be able to meet our raw material requirements and we may not be able to obtain substitute supplies from alternative suppliers in sufficient quantities, on economic terms, or in a timely manner. A lack of timely availability of our raw materials in the quantities we require to produce our products could result in our inability to meet customer demand and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to numerous regulations that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. We are subject to numerous regulations, including customs and international trade laws, export control, data privacy, antitrust laws and zoning and occupancy laws that regulate manufacturers generally and or govern the importation, promotion and sale of our products, the operation of our facilities and our relationship with our customers, suppliers and competitors. In addition, we face risk associated with trade protection laws, policies and measures and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs, imposition of new tariffs and duties and import and export licensing requirements. If these laws or regulations were to change or were violated by our management, employees, suppliers, buying agents or trading companies, the costs of certain goods could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our goods, be subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our products and hurt our business and negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could negatively impact our profitability. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effects on our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures or modify our business practices to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, which may increase our costs and materially limit our ability to operate our business. Increases in the costs of our raw materials could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations if those costs cannot be passed onto our customers. Our results of operations are directly affected by the cost of raw materials. Since the cost of these primary raw materials comprise a significant amount of our total cost of goods sold, the selling prices for our products and therefore our total revenue is impacted by movements in these raw material costs, as well as the cost of other inputs. In the past we have experienced erratic and significant changes in the costs of these raw materials, the cost of which has generally correlated with changes in energy prices, supply and demand factors, and prices for natural gas and crude oil. Moreover, the price of raw materials may also be impacted by other external factors, including uncertainties associated with war, terrorist attacks, weather and natural disasters, health epidemics or pandemics, civil unrest, the effects of climate change or political instability, plant or production disruptions, strikes or other labor unrest, breakdown or degradation of transportation infrastructure used in the delivery of raw materials or changes in laws or regulations in any of the countries in which we have significant suppliers. In addition, product mix can have an impact on our overall unit selling prices, since we provide an extensive product offering and therefore experience a wide range of unit selling prices. Because of the significant portion of our cost of goods sold represented by these raw materials, our gross profit margins could be adversely affected by changes in the cost of these raw materials if we are unable to pass the increases on to our customers. Due to volatile raw material prices, there can be no assurance that we can continue to recover raw material costs or retain customers in the future. For example, our logistics costs have increased substantially within the past 3 years, narrowing our profit margins. This may force us to increase our pricing, which could cause customers to consider competitors' products, some of which may be available at a lower cost. Significant loss of customers could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 8 Table of Contents If we are unable to access third party transportation for our raw materials and finished products, we may not be able to fulfill our obligations to our customers in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We rely upon transportation provided by third parties (including common carriers, rail companies and trans ocean cargo companies) to receive raw materials used in the production of our products and to deliver finished products to our customers. While we attempt to offset the risks associated with third party transportation issues, including by managing our supplies of raw materials, such mitigation efforts may not be successful. If we are unable to access third party transportation at economically attractive rates, or at all, or if there is any other significant disruption in the availability of third party transportation, we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials (on favorable terms, or at all) to match the pace of production and or we may not be able to fulfill our obligations to our customers in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Failure to successfully consummate extraordinary transactions, including the integration of other businesses, assets, products or technologies, or realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any such transaction may adversely affect our future business, results of operations and financial condition. As part of our business strategy, we from time to time explore possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and outsourcing transactions (collectively, "extraordinary transactions") in order to further our business objectives. To pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for, and successfully complete, extraordinary transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses or employees. The expense and effort incurred in exploring and consummating extraordinary transactions, the time it takes to integrate an acquisition or our failure to integrate businesses successfully, could result in additional and or unexpected expenses and losses. We also may not be successful in negotiating the terms of any potential extraordinary transactions, conducting thorough due diligence, financing an extraordinary transaction or effectively integrating the acquired business, product or technology into our existing business and operations. Our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology. Moreover, we may incur significant expenses whether or not a contemplated extraordinary transaction is ultimately consummated. Additionally, in connection with any extraordinary transaction we consummate, we many not fully realize all of the anticipated synergies and other benefits we expect to achieve (on our expected timeframe, or at all), and we may incur unanticipated expenses, write downs, impairment charges or unforeseen liabilities that could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, disrupt relationships with current and new employees, customers and vendors, incur significant debt or have to delay or not proceed with announced transactions. Further, managing extraordinary transactions requires varying levels of management and employee resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. We may also face additional challenges and costs after the consummation of the transaction, including those related to integrating or restructuring our operations, information management and other technology systems, while carrying on our ongoing business. Adverse results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us. We are subject to and may in the future be subject to a variety of legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business, including legal proceedings brought in non U.S. jurisdictions. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Irrespective of its merits, litigation may be both lengthy and disruptive to our operations and may cause significant expenditure and diversion of management attention. We may be faced with significant m1tary damages or injunctive relief against us that could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations should we fail to prevail in certain matters. Maintenance, expansion and refurbishment of our facilities and the development and implementation of new manufacturing processes involve significant risks which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our facilities require periodic maintenance, upgrading, expansion, refurbishment or improvement. Any unexpected operational or mechanical failure, including failure associated with breakdowns and forced outages, could reduce our facilities' production capacity below expected levels which would reduce our revenues and profitability. Unanticipated expenditures associated with maintaining, upgrading, expanding, refurbishing or improving our facilities may also reduce profitability. If we make any major modifications to our facilities, such modifications likely would result in substantial additional capital expenditures and may prolong the time necessary to bring the facility on line. We may also choose to refurbish or upgrade our facilities based on our assessment that such activity will provide adequate financial returns. However, such activities require time for development before commencement of commercial operations, and key assumptions underpinning a decision to make such an investment may prove incorrect, including assumptions regarding construction costs, demand growth and timing which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 9 Table of Contents Finally, we may not be successful or efficient in developing or implementing new production processes. Innovation in production processes involves significant expense and carries inherent risks, including difficulties in designing and developing new process technologies, development and production timing delays, lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, and product defects. Disruptions in the production process can also result from errors, defects in materials, delays in obtaining or revising operating permits and licenses, returns of product from customers, interruption in our supply of materials or resources and disruptions at our facilities due to accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe working conditions, all of which could affect the timing of production ramps and yields. Production issues can lead to increased costs and may affect our ability to meet product demand, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. There are certain hazards and risks inherent in our operations that could adversely affect those operations and results of operations and financial condition. As a manufacturer and distributor of diversified chemical products, our business is subject to operating risks inherent in chemical manufacturing, storage, handling and transportation. These risks include, but are not limited to, fires, explosions, severe weather and natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, loss of raw materials or our products, transportation interruptions, remediation, chemical spills, terrorist acts or war, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to, or destruction of, property and equipment and environmental contamination. In addition, our suppliers are also subject to similar risks that may adversely impact our production capabilities. A significant limitation on our ability to manufacture products due to disruption of manufacturing operations or related infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. While we adapt our manufacturing and distribution processes and controls to minimize the inherent risk of our operations, to promote workplace safety and to minimize the potential for human error, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous or regulated materials, including injury of our employees, individuals who handle our products or goods treated with our products, or others who claim to have been exposed to our products, nor can we completely eliminate the unanticipated interruption or suspension of operations at our facilities due to such events. We may be held liable for significant damages or fines in the event of contamination or injury, and such assessed damages or fines could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. Our property, business interruption and casualty insurance may not fully insure us against all potential hazards incidental to our business. We expect to continue to incur capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of our compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. Our industry is subject to extensive laws and evolving regulations related to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations have tended to become more stringent over time, continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things the discharge of pollutants into the environment; emissions into the atmosphere (including greenhouse gas emissions); and restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste. We are also subject to laws and regulations that require us to operate and maintain our facilities to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. In addition, failure to comply with these laws or regulations, or failure to obtain required permits from applicable regulatory authorities, may expose us to fines, penalties or interruptions in operations. To the extent these capital expenditures or operating costs are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, or that we are subject to fines, penalties or other interruptions in our operations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. If we are not able to continue the technological innovation and successful commercial introduction of new products, our customers may turn to other producers to meet their requirements, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our industry and the markets into which we sell our products experience periodic technological change and ongoing product improvements. In addition, our customers may introduce new generations of their own products, adopt new or different risk profiles, or require new technological and increased performance specifications that would require us to develop customized products. Our future growth and profitability will depend on our ability to maintain or enhance technological capabilities, develop and market products and applications that meet changing customer requirements and successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes in a cost effective and timely manner. Our inability to maintain a technological edge, innovate and improve our products could cause a decline in the demand and sales of our products and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Conditions in the global economy may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The demand for our products have historically correlated closely with general economic growth rates. The occurrence of recessions or other periods of low or negative growth will typically have a direct adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Other factors that affect general economic conditions in the world or in a major region, such 10 Table of Contents as changes in population growth rates or periods of civil unrest, weather and national disasters or health epidemics and pandemics also impact the demand for our products. Economic conditions that impair the functioning of financial markets and financial institutions also pose risks to us, including risks to the safety of our financial assets and to the ability of our partners and customers to fulfill their commitments to us. In addition, the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically been subject to fluctuation, which makes future financial results less predictable. Our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our products, customer groups and geographic markets. Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. In addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures. Market trends, competitive pressures, increased raw material or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period which may necessitate adjustments to our operations. The adoption of climate change legislation or regulation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our products. The nature of our operations could make us subject to legislation or regulations affecting the emission of greenhouse gases. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has promulgated (and may in the future promulgate) regulations applicable to projects involving greenhouse gas emissions above a certain threshold, and the U.S. and certain states within the U.S. have enacted, or are considering, limitations on greenhouse gas emissions. Jurisdictions outside the U.S. are also addressing greenhouse gases by legislation or regulation. In addition, efforts have been made and continue to be made at the international level toward the adoption of international treaties or protocols that would address global greenhouse gas emissions. These limitations may include the adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, restrictive permitting, increased efficiency standards and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Any such requirements could make our products more expensive, lengthen project implementation times and reduce demand for hydrocarbons, as well as shift hydrocarbon demand toward relatively lower carbon sources. Such legislation, regulation, treaties or protocols may also increase our compliance costs, such as for monitoring or sequestering emissions. We are exposed to local business risks in different countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we do not have production operations and assets outside of the U.S., we do have a global portfolio of customers and thus we are subject to a variety of international market risks including, but not limited to ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations, civil unrest and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts (including the potential impact of continued hostilities and conflict in Yemen on the operations of AMAK); longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability or credit risk among customers and distributors; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, including domestic and foreign customs and tariffs or other trade barriers; regulations favoring local contractors or requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a local jurisdiction; local labor conditions and regulations and the geographical dispersion of the workforce; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for labor and raw materials or lead to penalties or restrictions; data privacy regulations; risk of non compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar anti bribery legislation in other countries by agents or other third party representatives; risk of nationalization of private enterprises by foreign governments (including the risk that AMAK's mining and exploration leases may be terminated by the Saudi Ministry of Petroleum and Minerals); foreign currency exchange restrictions and fluctuations; the outbreak of global or regional health epidemics or pandemics; 11 Table of Contents difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax efficient manner and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs and disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. Such economic and political uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in ways that cannot be predicted at this time. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive raw materials from our suppliers and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. We are also predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. Domestic or international natural disasters or other severe weather events, health epidemics or pandemics or terrorist attacks may disrupt our operations or those of our customers or suppliers, decrease demand for our products or otherwise have an adverse impact on our business. Chemical related assets, and U.S. corporations such as ours, may be at a greater risk of future terrorist attacks (including both physical attacks and cyber attacks) than other possible targets in the U.S. Moreover, extraordinary events such as natural disasters, other severe weather events or global or local health epidemics or pandemics could result in significant damage to our facilities and or disruption of our operations and may negatively affect local economies, including those of our customers or suppliers. The occurrence of such events cannot be predicted, although their occurrence can be expected to continue to adversely impact the economy in general and our specific markets. The resulting damage from a natural disaster, other severe weather events or terrorist attack could include loss of life, property damage or site closure. Several of our facilities are located in regions where natural disasters and other severe weather events have previously disrupted, and may in the future disrupt, our ability to manufacture and deliver products from certain facilities. Any damage resulting in stoppage or reduction of our facilities production capacity could reduce our revenues and any unanticipated capital expenditures to repair such damage (to the extent not covered by our insurance policies) may reduce profitability. Any, or a combination, of these factors could also adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, global or local heath epidemics and pandemics may result in disruption of our operations or those of our customers or suppliers. For example, the COVID 19 (commonly referred to as the coronavirus) outbreak originating in China at the beginning of 2020 has resulted in closures, quarantines, travel restrictions and extended shutdown of certain businesses in regions in which we operate and could also substantially interfere with general commercial activity related to our supply chain and customer base. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. At this point, the extent of the impact on our results as a result of the coronavirus outbreak is uncertain. Increased information systems security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, ne2rks, products and services. Increased information systems security threats and more sophisticated, targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and ne2rks and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data, operations, and communications. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including security measures, employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our ne2rks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, if these measures prove inadequate, we could be adversely affected by, among other things, loss or damage of intellectual property, proprietary and confidential information, and communications or customer data, having our business operations interrupted and increased costs to prevent, respond to, or mitigate these cyber security threats. Any significant disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause customers to cancel orders or standard business processes to become inefficient or ineffective, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our future profitability. Factors that could materially affect our future effective tax rates include but are not limited to changes in tax laws or the regulatory environment; changes in accounting and tax standards or practices; changes in the composition of operating income by tax jurisdiction; and our operating results before taxes. We are subject to income taxes and state taxes in the U.S. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any 12 Table of Contents related litigation could be materially different to that which is reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Should any tax authority take issue with our estimates, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act ) was signed into law making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code. In particular, sweeping changes were made to the U.S. taxation of foreign operations. Changes include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a quasi territorial system, and a 1 time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings. The Company completed its analysis of the impact of the Tax Act and has finalized all estimates previously considered provisional under Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 in the fourth quarter of 2018. The changes in tax law under the Tax Act are complex and regulations governing the implementation continue to be issued. While the Company believes it has correctly accounted for the impact of the Tax Act, guidance continues to be issued and may differ from our interpretation based on existing facts and circumstances. We are subject to examination by federal and state tax authorities. While we regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from examinations by the IRS and other tax authorities to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that the actual outcome resulting from these examinations will not materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. AMAK is also subject to various taxes in Saudi Arabia. While AMAK currently benefits from certain tax credits that reduce its overall tax liability, there can be no assurance that relevant tax authorities will continue to maintain such credits. In addition, there can be no assurances that future changes in tax law in Saudi Arabia will not result in increased tax liability to AMAK. A material increase in tax liability could have an adverse effect on AMAK's results of operations and financial condition, which may in turn have an adverse effect on our investment in AMAK. Implementation of changes to our enterprise resource planning ("ERP") system may adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. During 2017, we implemented a new ERP system at our specialty petrochemicals facility in order to better manage our business, and we continue to implement additional improvements to the system. ERP implementations are complex and time consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation activities over a significant period of time. If we do not effectively implement changes to ERP system, or if the system does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect our financial reporting systems and our ability to produce financial reports, the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting (including our disclosure controls and procedures), and our business and results of operations. Certain activist stockholders actions could cause us to incur expense and hinder execution of our strategy. While we seek to actively engage with our stockholders and consider their views on business and strategy, we could be subject to actions or proposals from our stockholders that do not align with our business strategies or the interests of our other stockholders. Responding to these stockholders could be costly and time consuming, disrupt our business and operations and divert the attention of our management. Furthermore, uncertainties associated with such activities could negatively impact our ability to execute our strategic plan, retain customers and skilled employees and affect long term growth. In addition, such activities may cause our stock price to fluctuate based on temporary or speculative market perceptions that do not necessarily reflect our business operations. The covenants in the instruments that govern our outstanding indebtedness may limit our operating and financial flexibility. The covenants in the instruments that govern our outstanding indebtedness limit our ability to, among other things incur indebtedness and liens; make loans and investments; prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; engage in acquisitions, consolidations, asset dispositions, sale leaseback transactions and affiliate transactions; change our business; amend some of our debt agreements; and grant negative pledges to other creditors. In addition, the ARC Agreement (as defined herein) also has financial covenants that require TOCCO to maintain a maximum Consolidated Leverage Ratio and minimum Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (each as defined in the ARC Agreement). See I, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the heading "Liquidity and Capital Resources." 13 Table of Contents A failure by us or our subsidiaries to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default under such indebtedness, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of the agreements governing our indebtedness, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable and exercise other remedies as set forth in the agreements. Further, an event of default or acceleration of indebtedness under 1 instrument may constitute an event of default under another instrument. If any of our indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay this indebtedness in full, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate as a going concern. Our substantial indebtedness could limit cash flow available for our operations and could adversely affect our ability to service debt or obtain additional financing if necessary. As of December 31, 2019, we had $3 million in borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Facility") and $80.9 million in borrowings outstanding under our term loan facility (the "Term Loan Facility" and, together with the Revolving Facility, the "Credit Facilities"). Pursuant to the terms of the amended and restated credit agreement (as amended to the date hereof, the "ARC Agreement") governing the Credit Facilities, we also have the option, at any time, to request an increase to the commitment under the Revolving Facility and or the Term Loan Facility by an additional amount of up to $50.0 million in the aggregate, subject to lenders acceptance of the increased commitment and other conditions. Although the agreements governing our existing indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of important exceptions, and additional indebtedness that we may incur from time to time to finance projects or for other reasons in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If we incur significant additional indebtedness, the related risks that we face could increase. Our current, or any future, indebtedness could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the markets in which we compete; place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors with less indebtedness; limit our ability to reinvest in our business; render us more vulnerable to general adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions; and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to service our indebtedness. Our ability to meet our cash requirements, including our debt service obligations, is dependent upon our ability to maintain our operating performance, which will be subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our cash requirements and debt service obligations. To service our current, and any future, indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash, which may adversely affect our future results. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness (or otherwise seek amendment or relief from the terms of our indebtedness), on or before the maturity thereof, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We might not generate sufficient cash flow to repay indebtedness as currently anticipated. In addition, we may not be able to effect any of these actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more 1rous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may limit or prevent us from taking any of these actions. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. 14 Table of Contents Borrowings under the Credit Facilities are, and additional borrowings in the future may be, at variable rates of interest that expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed will remain the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. We may in the future enter into, interest rate swaps for our variable rate debt whereby we exchange floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce exposure to interest rate volatility. However, any interest rate swaps into which we enter may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. We from time to time are subject to contingent liabilities. If any contingent liabilities become actual liabilities, our financial condition may be adversely affected. We are subject to various contingent liabilities that may affect our liquidity and our ability to meet our obligations, including our limited corporate guarantee to SIDF in connection with AMAK's Loan to fund mining operations. To the extent any of our current or future contingent liabilities become actual liabilities, it may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We do not control the activities of AMAK and are dependent on AMAK's management and board of directors. Although we believe that we have influence over the operating and financial policies of AMAK, we do not control AMAK's activities. The extent to which we are able to influence specific operating and financial decisions depends on our ability to persuade other AMAK board members and management regarding these policies. Our ability to persuade them may be adversely affected by cultural differences, differing accounting and management practices and differing governmental laws and regulations. In addition, we rely upon AMAK's management and board of directors to direct the operations of AMAK, including employing various engineering and financial advisors to assist in the development and evaluation of the mining projects in Saudi Arabia. We also rely on management of AMAK to provide timely, accurate financial information required for inclusion with our reports filed with the SEC. There can be no assurance that our investment in AMAK will not be negatively impacted by the decisions made by AMAK's management and board of directors regarding AMAK's activities, including with respect to the selection and use of consultants and experienced personnel to manage the operation in Saudi Arabia. Cost pressures could negatively impact AMAK's operating margins and expansion plans. Cost pressures may continue to occur across the resources industry. As the prices for AMAK's products are determined by the global commodity markets in which it operates, AMAK does not generally have the ability to offset these cost pressures through corresponding price increases, which can adversely affect its operating margins or require changes in operations, including, but not limited to, temporary planned shutdowns. Notwithstanding AMAK's efforts to reduce costs, and a number of key cost inputs being commodity price linked, the inability to reduce costs and a timing lag may adversely impact AMAK's operating margins for an extended period. We may be unable to recover our investment in AMAK, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We will only recover our investment in AMAK through the receipt of distributions or future share repurchases from AMAK or the sale of part or all of our interest in AMAK. If AMAK does not continue to be profitable, our ability to recover our investment will be adversely affected. Moreover, if AMAK continues to be profitable, there can be no assurance that the board of directors of AMAK will determine that it is in the best interests of AMAK and its shareholders to make distributions to its shareholders or to initiate additional share repurchases. In addition, we understand that AMAK is required to sell a portion of its equity to the public once AMAK has been profitable for 2 years. While the proceeds of such a sale might allow us to recover our investment in AMAK, there is no assurance that the market conditions for any such public sale will be favorable enough to allow us to recover our investment or that some or all of our shares in AMAK will be include in any such sale. To the extent we are unable to recover our investments in AMAK, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. AMAK may have fewer mineral reserves than its estimates indicate. Fluctuations in the price of commodities, variation in production costs or different recovery rates could result in AMAK's estimated reserves being revised in the future. If such a revision were to indicate a substantial reduction in proven or probable reserves at 1 or more of AMAK's projects, it could adversely affect our investment in AMAK. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. N1 15 Table of Contents ITEM 2 Properties.
