CIK: 881787
Company Name: CROSS TIMBERS ROYALTY TRUST
Form Type : 10-K
Filing Date: 2020-03-12
Accession Number: 0001193125-20-071453


Item 1 Business Cross Timbers Royalty Trust (the Trust ) is an express trust created under the laws of Texas pursuant to the Cross Timbers Royalty Trust Indenture entered into on February 12, 1991 between predecessors of XTO Energy Inc. (formerly known as Cross Timbers Oil Company), as grantors, and NCNB Texas National Bank, as Trustee. On January 9, 2014, the successor of NCNB Texas National Bank, U.S. Trust, Bank of America Private Wealth Management, a division of Bank of America, N.A., gave notice to unitholders that it would resign as Trustee. At the special meeting of the Trust unitholders held on June 20, 2014, the unitholders of the Trust voted to approve the proposal to appoint Southwest Bank as successor Trustee of the Trust effective August 29, 2014. Effective October 19, 2017, Simmons First National Corporation ( SFNC ) completed its acquisition of First Texas BHC, Inc., the parent company of Southwest Bank, the Trustee of the Trust. SFNC is the parent of Simmons Bank. SFNC merged Southwest Bank with Simmons Bank effective February 20, 2018. Simmons Bank (the Trustee ) is now the Trustee of the Trust. The principal office of the Trust is 2911 Turtle Creek Blvd, Suite 850, Dallas, Texas 75219. (Teleph1 number 855 588 7839). The Trust internet web site is www.crt crosstimbers.com . We make available free of charge, through our web site, our Annual Report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These reports are accessible through our internet web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information on our website is not incorporated into this report. On February 12, 1991, the predecessors of XTO Energy conveyed defined net profits interests to the Trust under five separate conveyances 1 1 in each of the states of Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico, to convey a 90% defined net profits interest carved out of substantially all royalty and overriding royalty interests owned by the predecessors in those states, and 2 1 in each of the states of Texas and Oklahoma, to convey a 75% defined net profits interest carved out of specific working interests owned by the predecessors in those states. The conveyance of these net profits interests was effective for production from October 1, 1990. The net profits interests and the underlying properties are further described under Item 2, Properties . In exchange for the net profits interests conveyed to the Trust, the predecessors of XTO Energy received 6,000,000 units of beneficial interest of the Trust. Predecessors of XTO Energy distributed units to their owners in February 1991 and November 1992, and in February 1992, sold units in the Trust initial public offering. Units are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CRT. XTO Energy currently is not a unitholder of the Trust. On June 25, 2010, XTO Energy became a wholly owned subsidiary of Exxon Mobil Corporation. Under the terms of each of the five conveyances, the Trust receives net profits income from the net profits interests generally on the last business day of each month. Net profits income is determined by XTO Energy by multiplying the net profit percentage (90% or 75%) times net proceeds from the underlying properties for each conveyance during the previous month. Net proceeds are the gross proceeds received from the sale of production, less production costs, as defined in the conveyances. For the 90% net profits interests and the 75% net profits interests, production costs generally include applicable property taxes, transportation, marketing and other charges. For the 75% net profits interests, production costs also include capital and operating costs paid (e.g., drilling, production and other direct costs of owning and operating the property), monthly overhead charged by operators of the underlying 2 Table of Contents properties, and a monthly overhead XTO Energy deducts as reimbursement for costs associated with monitoring these interests. If production costs exceed gross proceeds for any conveyance, this excess is carried forward to future monthly computations of net proceeds until the excess costs (plus interest accrued as specified in the conveyances) are completely recovered. Excess production costs and related accrued interest from 1 conveyance cannot be used to reduce net proceeds from any other conveyance. For further information on excess costs, see Note 7 to Financial Statements under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . The Trust is not liable for any production costs or liabilities attributable to the underlying properties. If at any time the Trust receives net profits income in excess of the amount due, the Trust is not obligated to return such overpayment, but future net profits income payable to the Trust will be reduced until the overpayment, plus interest at the prime rate, is recovered. As a working interest owner, XTO Energy can generally decline participation in any operation and allow consenting parties to conduct such operations, as provided under the operating agreements. XTO Energy also can assign, sell, or otherwise transfer its interest in the underlying properties, subject to the net profits interests, or can abandon an underlying property that is a working interest if it is incapable of producing in paying quantities, as determined by XTO Energy. To the extent allowed, XTO Energy is responsible for marketing its production from the underlying properties under existing sales contracts or new arrangements on the best terms reasonably obtainable in the circumstances. Net profits income received by the Trust on or before the last business day of the month is generally attributable to oil production 2 months prior and gas production 3 months prior. The monthly distribution amount to unitholders is determined by Adding 1 net profits income received; 2 estimated interest income to be received on the monthly distribution amount, including an adjustment for the difference between the estimated and actual interest received for the prior monthly distribution amount; 3 cash available as a result of reduction of cash reserves; and 4. other cash receipts; then Subtracting 1 liabilities paid; and 2 the reduction in cash available due to establishment of or increase in any cash reserve. The monthly distribution amount is distributed to unitholders of record within ten business days after the monthly record date. The monthly record date is generally the last business day of the month. The Trustee calculates the monthly distribution amount and announces the distribution per unit at least ten days prior to the monthly record date. The Trustee may establish cash reserves for contingencies. Cash held for such reserves, as well as for pending payment of the monthly distribution amount, may be invested in federal obligations or certificates of deposit of major banks. The Trustee function is to collect the net profits income from the net profits interests, to pay all Trust expenses and to pay the monthly distribution amount to unitholders. The Trustee powers are specified by the terms of the indenture. The Trust cannot engage in any business activity or acquire any assets other than the net profits interests and specific short term cash investments. The Trust has no employees since all administrative functions are performed by the Trustee. 3 Table of Contents Approximately 56% of the net profits income received by the Trust during 2019 was attributable to natural gas, as well as 40% of the Trust estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves at December 31, 2019 (based on estimated future net cash flows using 12 month average oil and gas prices, based on the first day of the month price for each month in the period). There is generally a greater demand for gas during the winter. Otherwise, Trust income is not subject to seasonal factors, nor dependent upon patents, licenses, franchises or concessions. The Trust conducts no research activities. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive in all its phases. Operators of the properties in which the Trust holds interests encounter competition from other oil and gas companies and from individual producers and operators. Oil and natural gas are commodities, for which market prices are determined by external supply and demand factors. Current market conditions are not necessarily indicative of future conditions. Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward looking statements made in this report and presented elsewhere by the Trustee from time to time. Such factors may have a material adverse effect upon the Trust financial condition, distributable income and changes in trust corpus. The following discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes included under Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Because of these and other factors, past financial performance should not be considered an indication of future performance. The market price for the Trust units may not reflect the value of the net profits interests held by the Trust. The public trading price for the Trust units tends to be tied to the recent and expected levels of cash distributions on the Trust units. The amounts available for distribution by the Trust vary in response to numerous factors outside the control of the Trust or XTO Energy, including prevailing prices for oil and natural gas produced from the underlying properties. The market price of the Trust units is not necessarily indicative of the value that the Trust would realize if the net profits interests were sold to a third party buyer. In addition, such market price is not necessarily reflective of the fact that, since the assets of the Trust are depleting assets, a portion of each cash distribution paid on the Trust units should be considered by investors as a return of capital, with the remainder being considered as a return on investment. There is no guarantee that distributions made to a unitholder over the life of these depleting assets will equal or exceed the purchase price paid by the unitholder. Oil and natural gas prices fluctuate due to a number of uncontrollable factors, and any decline will adversely affect the net proceeds payable to the Trust and Trust distributions. The Trust monthly cash distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of natural gas and oil. Oil and natural gas prices can fluctuate widely on a month to month basis in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust and XTO Energy. Factors that contribute to price fluctuations include instability in oil producing regions, worldwide economic conditions, weather conditions, trade barriers, political instability, public health concerns, the supply of domestic and foreign oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, consumer demand, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities and the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. Moreover, government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation and price controls, environmental regulations, or trade barriers, can affect product prices. Oil and natural gas prices have declined substantially from historical highs and may not return to those levels in the foreseeable future, if ever. A significant decline in current oil or natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on the amount of oil and natural gas that is economic to produce, Trust net profits (and therefore cash available for distribution to unitholders) and proved reserves attributable to the Trust interests. The volatility of energy prices reduces the predictability of future cash distributions to Trust unitholders. 4 Table of Contents Higher production expense and or development costs, without concurrent increases in revenue, will directly decrease the net proceeds payable to the Trust from the properties underlying the 75% net profits interests. Production expense and development costs are deducted in the calculation of the Trust share of net proceeds from properties underlying the 75% net profits interests. Accordingly, higher or lower production expense and development costs, without concurrent changes in revenue, will directly decrease or increase the amount received by the Trust for its 75% net profits interests. If development costs and production expense for properties underlying the 75% net profits in a particular state exceed the production proceeds from the properties, (as was the case with respect to the properties underlying the Texas working interests for all of 2018 and 2019 and with respect to the properties underlying the Oklahoma working interests for the last month of 2018, and the 2019 distribution months of January, April, September, October and November) the Trust will not receive net profits income for those properties until future net proceeds from production in that state exceed the total of the excess costs plus accrued interest during the deficit period. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay the costs. Proved reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could cause the quantities and net present value of the reserves to be overstated. Estimating proved oil and gas reserves is inherently uncertain. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make assumptions in estimating reserves and future net cash flows. Those factors and assumptions include historical production from the area compared with production rates from similar producing areas, the effects of governmental regulation, assumptions about future commodity prices, production expense and development costs, taxes and capital expenditures, the availability of enhanced recovery techniques and relationships with landowners, working interest partners, pipeline companies and others. Lower oil and gas prices generally cause lower estimates of proved reserves. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the underlying properties will vary from estimates and those variances could be material. Because the Trust owns net profits interests, it does not own a specific percentage of the oil and gas reserves. Estimated proved reserves for the net profits interests are based on estimates of reserves for the underlying properties and an allocation method that considers estimated future net proceeds and oil and gas prices. Because Trust reserve quantities are determined using an allocation formula, increases or decreases in oil and gas prices can significantly affect estimated reserves of the 75% net profits interests. Operational risks and hazards associated with the development and operations of the underlying properties may decrease Trust distributions. There are operational risks and hazards associated with the production and transportation of oil and natural gas, including without limitation natural disasters, blowouts, explosions, fires, leakage of oil or natural gas, releases of other hazardous materials, mechanical failures, cratering, and pollution. Any of these or similar occurrences could result in the interruption or cessation of operations, personal injury or loss of life, property damage, damage to productive formations or equipment, damage to the environment or natural resources, or cleanup obligations. The operation of oil and gas properties is also subject to various laws and regulations. Non compliance with such laws and regulations could subject the operator to additional costs, sanctions or liabilities. The uninsured costs resulting from any of the above or similar occurrences could be deducted as a production expense or development cost in calculating the net proceeds payable to the Trust from properties underlying the 75% net profits interests, and would therefore reduce Trust distributions by the amount of such uninsured costs. Future net profits may be subject to risks relating to the credi2rthiness of third parties. The Trust does not lend m1y and has limited ability to borrow m1y, which the Trustee believes limits the Trust risk from exposure to credit markets. The Trust future net profits, however, may be subject to risks relating to the credi2rthiness of the operators of the underlying properties and other purchasers of crude oil and natural gas produced from the underlying properties. This credi2rthiness may be impacted by the price of crude oil and natural gas. 5 Table of Contents Trust unitholders and the Trustee have no influence over the operations on, or future development of, the underlying properties. Because XTO Energy does not operate most of the underlying properties, it is unable to significantly influence the operations or future development of the underlying properties. Neither the Trustee nor the Trust unitholders can influence or control the operation or future development of the underlying properties. The failure of an operator to conduct its operations or discharge its obligations in a proper manner could have an adverse effect on the net proceeds payable to the Trust. Although XTO Energy and the other operators of the underlying properties must adhere to the standard of a prudent operator, they are under no obligation to continue operating the properties. Neither the Trustee nor Trust unitholders have the right to replace an operator. The assets of the Trust represent interests in depleting assets and, if XTO Energy or any other operators developing the underlying properties do not perform additional successful development projects, the assets may deplete faster than expected. Eventually, the assets of the Trust will cease to produce in commercial quantities and the Trust will cease to receive proceeds from such assets. The net proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of hydrocarbons from depleting assets. Future maintenance and development projects on the underlying properties will affect the quantity of proved reserves and can offset the reduction in the depletion of proved reserves. The timing and size of these projects will depend on the market prices of oil and natural gas. If the operator(s) of the properties do not implement additional maintenance and development projects, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by the Trust. Because the net proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of hydrocarbons from depleting assets, the portion of distributions to unitholders attributable to depletion may be considered a return on capital as opposed to a return on investment. Distributions that are a return of capital will ultimately diminish the depletion tax benefits available to the unitholders, which could reduce the market value of the units over time. Eventually, the properties underlying the Trust net profits interest will cease to produce in commercial quantities and the Trust will, therefore, cease to receive any net proceeds therefrom. Terrorism, geopolitical hostilities, military actions or political instability could adversely affect Trust distributions or the market price of the Trust units. There are a number of national and international events that could cause instability in global financial and energy markets. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as military or other actions taken in response, impact the demand for and price of oil and natural gas in unpredictable ways, including increasing volatility in pricing. Actual or threatened acts of terrorism and other geopolitical hostilities could adversely affect Trust distributions or the market price of the Trust units in unpredictable ways, including through the disruption of fuel supplies and markets, increased volatility in oil and natural gas prices, or the possibility that the infrastructure on which the operators of the underlying properties rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of such an event. XTO Energy may transfer its interest in the underlying properties without the consent of the Trust or the Trust unitholders. XTO Energy may at any time transfer all or part of its interest in the underlying properties to another party. Neither the Trust nor the Trust unitholders are entitled to vote on any transfer of the properties underlying the Trust net profits interests, and the Trust will not receive any proceeds of any such transfer. Following any transfer, the transferred property will continue to be subject to the net profits interests of the Trust, but the calculation, reporting and remitting of net proceeds to the Trust will be the responsibility of the transferee. XTO Energy or any other operator of any underlying property may abandon the property, thereby terminating the related net profits interest payable to the Trust. XTO Energy or any other operator of the underlying properties, or any transferee thereof, may abandon any well or property without the consent of the Trust or the Trust unitholders if they reasonably believe that the well or property 6 Table of Contents can no longer produce in commercially economic quantities. This could result in the termination of the net profits interest relating to the aband1d well or property. The net profits interests can be sold and the Trust would be terminated. The Trust will also be terminated if it fails to generate sufficient gross proceeds. The Trust may sell the net profits interests if the holders of 80% or more of the outstanding Trust units approve the sale or vote to terminate the Trust. The Trust will terminate if it fails to generate gross proceeds from the underlying properties of at least $1,000,000 per year over any successive 2 year period. Sale of all of the net profits interests will terminate the Trust. The net proceeds of any sale must be for cash with the proceeds less any Trust administrative costs promptly distributed to the Trust unitholders. The sale of the remaining net profits interests and the termination of the Trust will be taxable events to the Trust unitholders. Generally, a Trust unitholder will realize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized on the sale and termination of the Trust and his adjusted basis in such units. Gain or loss realized by a Trust unitholder who is not a dealer with respect to such units and who has a holding period for the units of more than 1 year will be treated as long term capital gain or loss except to the extent of any depletion recapture amount, which must be treated as ordinary income. Other federal and state tax issues concerning the Trust are discussed under Item 2 and Note 4 to the Trust financial statements, which are included herein. Each Trust unitholder should consult his own tax advisor regarding Trust tax compliance matters, including federal and state tax implications concerning the sale of the net profits interests and the termination of the Trust. Trust unitholders have limited voting rights and have limited ability to enforce the Trust rights against XTO Energy or any other operator of the underlying properties. The voting rights of a Trust unitholder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of Trust unitholders or for an annual or other periodic re election of the Trustee. Additionally, Trust unitholders have no voting rights in XTO Energy or Exxon Mobil Corporation. The Trust indenture and related trust law permit the Trustee and the Trust to sue XTO Energy or any other operator of the underlying properties to compel them to fulfill the terms of the conveyance of the net profits interests. If the Trustee does not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of the conveyance, the recourse of the Trust unitholders would likely be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the Trustee to compel the Trustee to take specified actions. Trust unitholders probably would not be able to sue XTO Energy or any other operator of the underlying properties. Financial information of the Trust is not prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The financial statements of the Trust are prepared on a modified cash basis of accounting, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP. Although this basis of accounting is permitted for royalty trusts by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the financial statements of the Trust differ from U.S. GAAP financial statements because net profits income is not accrued in the month of production, expenses are not recognized when incurred and cash reserves may be established for certain contingencies that would not be recorded in U.S. GAAP financial statements. The limited liability of Trust unitholders is uncertain. The Trust unitholders are not protected from the liabilities of the Trust to the same extent that a shareholder would be protected from a corporation liabilities. The structure of the Trust does not include the interposition of a limited liability entity such as a corporation or limited partnership which would provide further limited liability protection to Trust unitholders. While the Trustee is liable for any excess liabilities incurred if the Trustee fails to 7 Table of Contents ensure that such liabilities are to be satisfied only out of Trust assets, under the laws of Texas, which are unsettled on this point, a unitholder may be jointly and severally liable for any liability of the Trust if the satisfaction of such liability was not contractually limited to the assets of the Trust and the assets of the Trust and the Trustee are not adequate to satisfy such liability. As a result, Trust unitholders may be exposed to personal liability. The Trust, however, is not liable for production costs or other liabilities of the underlying properties. Drilling oil and natural gas wells is a high risk activity and subjects the Trust to a variety of factors that it cannot control. Drilling oil and natural gas wells involves numerous risks, including the risk that commercially productive oil and natural gas reservoirs are not encountered. The presence of unanticipated pressures or irregularities in formations, miscalculations or accidents may cause drilling activities to be unsuccessful. In addition, there is often uncertainty as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and operating wells. Further, development activities may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including 1 reduced oil or natural gas prices; 2 unexpected drilling conditions; 3 title problems; 4. restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipeline; 5. pressure or irregularities in formations; 6. equipment failures or accidents; 7. adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, or public health events; and 8. costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, labor, tubular materials and equipment. While these risks do not expose the Trust to liabilities of the drilling contractor or operator of the well, they can reduce net proceeds payable to the Trust and Trust distributions by decreasing oil and gas revenues or increasing production expense or development costs from the underlying properties. Furthermore, these risks may cause the costs of development activities on properties underlying the 75% net profits interests to exceed the revenues therefrom, thereby reducing net proceeds payable to the Trust and Trust distributions. The underlying properties are subject to complex federal, state and local laws and regulations that could adversely affect net proceeds payable to the Trust and Trust distributions. Extensive federal, state and local regulation of the oil and natural gas industry significantly affects operations on the underlying properties. In particular, oil and natural gas development and production are subject to stringent environmental regulations. These regulations have increased the costs of planning, designing, drilling, installing, operating and abandoning oil and natural gas wells and other related facilities, which costs could reduce net proceeds payable to the Trust and Trust distributions. These regulations may become more demanding in the future. See Regulation in Item 2, Properties , and Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Climate Change Regulations in Item 7, Trustee Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Cash held by the Trustee is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Currently, cash held by the Trust reserved for the payment of accrued liabilities and estimated future expenses and distributions to unitholders is typically held in a treasury fund that under normal market conditions invests exclusively in U.S. Treasury obligations. Although the fund underlying investments are obligations of the U.S. government, the fund itself is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In the event that the fund becomes insolvent, the Trustee may be unable to recover any or all such cash from the insolvent fund. Any loss of such cash may have a material adverse effect on the Trust cash balances and any distributions to unitholders. 8 Table of Contents The tax treatment of an investment in Trust units could be affected by recent and potential legislative changes, possibly on a retroactive basis. U.S. federal tax reform legislation informally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the TCJA ) was enacted December 22, 2017, and makes significant changes to the federal income tax rules applicable to both individuals and entities, including changes to the effective tax rate on a Trust unitholder allocable share of certain income from the Trust. The TCJA is complex and lacks administrative guidance, thus, Trust unitholders should consult their tax advisor regarding the TCJA and its effect on an investment in Trust units. For taxable years beginning after 2017, the highest marginal U.S. federal income tax rates applicable to ordinary income and long term capital gains of individuals are 37% and 20%, respectively. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws or interpretations thereof (including administrative guidance relating to the TCJA) may be applied retroactively and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Trust is unable to predict whether any changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted, or whether any adverse interpretations will be used. Any such changes or interpretations could negatively impact the value of an investment in the Trust units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of December 31, 2019, the Trust did not have any unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission staff comments.
